
== intro_2 66 ==

  For weeks we have been up to the elbows in a fuming vat of nitric
acid, painfully learning by experience the devious and arcane art
of the photo engraver.  We have inhaled hydrogen enough to inflate
the lamented Graf Zeppelin, nitric acid vapor in quantities that
would scald the rust from the boilers of the Queen Mary. These are,
by the way, vaporous by-products of the engraving process. The mod-
erate success of our efforts is to be seen and analyzed on the cover
and in the following pages.

  We work under disadvantages, after all. We made engravings at the
kitchen sink, but it is not the best place for it, you can believe
us.  No more shall be made until a proper "plant" has been consti-
tuted for it in the basement, with adequate ventilation.

  Many thanks to you readers for your kind letters and helpful sug-
gestions. We feel that an improvement has been effected in the for-
mat of the magazine. Some of you complained of the lack of sturdi-
ness of the cover, and this has been, we think, adequately remedied.
We have worked over and modernized our bookbinder's "plow and press"
to simulate mass production in the trimming of magazine edges.  We
have given thought to our choice of paper for this issue and have
laid in a number of fonts of interesting type  to  dress up story
heads and type pages.

  We hope to continue improving the magazine, even if it should pre-
vent the meeting of publication deadlines.  We are in this for fun
and, thank Heaven, punch no time clock and waste no rue upon throw-
ing profits after losses.

  You who have seen our Spring issue will note that this Summer num-
ber is six pages longer.  This signifies nothing.  The Fall number
may be longer, or it may be shorter.  We maintain an attitude of
cheerful irresponsibility in respect to how many pages shall con-
stitute an issue; though we avow that  our readers shall not get
less than their two bits' worth. . .wholesale.

  We are very well taken with the possibilities of color in the field
of photo engraving.  We have not the facilities (nor do we intend
to acquire any) for the production of screen half-tone plates. Line
plates offer a fascinating enough field for interesting experimen-
tation. Our cover and Ul-Ul on the back cover demonstrate the basic
fundamentals of such color work.  (Ul-Ul is printed from one zinco
and two lino blocks.) Complex variations with the use of solid and
Ben Day tints are full of possibilities. Look for something of this
nature in the Fall issue.

  We feel that our writers this issue have done themselves proud.
We are highly pleased with the quarter's achievement in this dir-
ection.  A small matter of technique is all that stands between
most amateur writers and their goal of professional standing.  If
your basic thinking is sound, you can hammer at technique until you
get it down right.  Knowing what to say is at least three quarters
of the battle. How to say it comes with practice. We would not coun-
sel any who hoped to write to give up that hope.  You can always
write, if not to sell, at least for your satisfaction.

  Let us see more of your scripts.
                                                                MB

== ultra_weird_3 66 ==

                     RALPH RAYBURN PHILLIPS
                       Ultra Weird Artist


  New indeed is the fan who has not before this made acquaintance
with the work of Ralph Rayburn Phillips, whose generous zeal in
the interest of the weird and macabre is portrayed in these pages.

  Hailing from the green hills of New England, Ralph now shares a
grave with another corpse in a prominent Portland, Oregon cemetery.
As shadows of night close subtly down and the last spark of a bloody
sun is extinguished in the purpling sky, the earth crumbles, and a
horrid figure dredges its way out of what should be its resting
place serene. Ralph Rayburn Phillips! The world's weirdest and most
macabre artist! You recognize him by the clay-smeared drawing board
under his arm. . .and those long, long fingernails he uses to draw
with (all five at once, and sometimes ten), after dipping them in
the blood of his latest victim!  (Our film is orthochromatic, any-
way, and red photographs black).

  Seriously, Ralph is one of the most original artists in this field
we have seen.  Unlike Dali who mutilates normalcy to achieve his
desired effect, Ralph departs entirely from normalcy to the extent
that you either like his work immensely, or you like it not at all.
We happen to like it.

  Actually, Ralph does do his work at night, when the owl hoots
outside his window, and the bat makes like a flying saucer against
the moon.   When you view his work, you can hear the creak of the
coffin lid, the clangor of lugubrious chains, the moan and wail of
the spirit condemned.

  Like a living alter-ego of Lovecraft, Ralph Rayburn Phillips brings
to life the inventions and imaginings of that master of the weird
and fantastic.  Indeed, Ralph feels that between himself and Love-
craft in his grave there exists an intangible bond, a sharing, as
it were, of the ghostly knowledge of worlds beyond worlds, of uni-
verses beyond ken.

  If there are, indeed, works of pictorial art that will reveal
that dimension from which Lovecraft drew his imagery and inspiration,
then these are the work of Ralph Rayburn Phillips.

  Other fields besides art grapple with Ralph for his time. He is,
for instance, the founder and head of the American Buddhist Soc-
iety and spends much time in the meditation of profound and esoteric
things. He is a mystic, with a mystic personality. The utterance he
finds for this absorbing mysticism in the products of his pen and
brush can best be judged by the individual observer. If you do not
see it there, if you do not read into the boldness and obscure
symbolism of  his work the soul of  a true mystic absorbed in a
contemplation of the infinite, then you have no part of the mystic
in you.

  Most cogent of all, perhaps. . .Ralph is a fan among fans, a sin-
cere devotee to fandom.  He is a member of the Portland Science
Fiction Society of Portland, Oregon, and an earnest friend of every
serious fan.  Try to make it to the Norwescon this September 1—-4,
and you will doubtless get a chance to meet him.

== fen_wer_4 66 ==

  A SHRILL, MULTITUDINOUS PIPING OF FROGS found voice suddenly at
high noon in August, in downtown LeFarge.

  John Logan stopped with one foot outside the LeFarge National
Bank and received a smart rap on the heel of the other from the re-
volving door. A perspiring patron catapulted from the exit, caromed
off Logan's left arm, scowled over his shoulder,  and hurried off
into the swirl of the midday throng.

  The froggy litany shrilled to a crescendo. Logan mentally thumbed
his brain-index of sounds.  Frogs.  Only frogs.  He shrugged  and
grinned to himself.

  Frogs? Downtown. . .in mid-August?

  He followed with his ear, then his eyes, the course of the sound
—-now a vibrant noise, loud and painfully throbbing; though appar-
ently it was unheard or ignored by the hurrying crowd, for none
save he paused to listen.

  An enormous fat man sat behind the wheel of a disreputable black
sedan parked at the curb. Half the wheel was hidden in his enormous
paunch. Coarse, hand-sewn clothes gaped at the seams in a Gargantuan

== fen_wer_6 66 ==

task to encompass such a mountain of flesh.  From swollen, doughy
hillocks of gray-green flesh, black eyes pierced keenly toward Lo-
gan, as if their monstrous owner was aware of Logan's interest.

  The two locked glances. The fat man turned his head, made a pon-
derous movement.  The chuckling of frogs merged with  the sound of
the revving motor. The sedan moved out from the curb.

  John Logan shook himself and grinned sheepishly. For a moment, he
had imagined the froggish din was coming straight from the fat man's
paunch—-when more likely it was the protest of main bearings in need
of oil.

  He swung off down the street and promptly forgot the fat man and
the idling motor that had seemed to sound like a swamp full of frogs.

  Linda Logan-—brunette, dainty, "pretty as peaches" in the par-
lance of husband John—-had finished packing their bags by the time
John got back from the bank.

  "Hullo, Yawn, dear." She slithered into his arms.

  "I won't yawn," said John. He kissed her ear, then planted a firm
buss on her healthy, pouting lips.

  Linda laughed, tossed her long hair, pulled back in the circling
embrace of his arms.

  "Woe is me - the honeymoon is over!"

  "Not this one," John denied. "It's just starting, baby, and it's
going to last fifty years!"

  Linda pouted. "A week ago, you'd have. . ."

  Logan pushed her away. "Shut up. Are the bags packed?"

  "Yep - for the last time.  Tomorrow we'll be home.  Home!"  She
looked starry-eyed and soulful.

  "Home!"  echoed John.  "Home - where you walk up two flights and
back in through the door, so you'll be facing the right way when
you come out in the morning! Nope. We're not going home, Linda-sweet."

  She looked a question. John fumbled in his pocket, brought out a
crumpled, yellow telegram.

  "From Grant - feature editor, in case I neglected to mention him
before."

  Linda wrinkled her nose thoughtfully. "Mmmm....Aloysius G. Grant
of the Never-Grant-Anything Grants. Gimme."

  She smoothed out the paper.

  PLAGUE OF FROGS AT YAGGERS LANDING WHERE IN GOD'S NAME IS THAT
LOOK IT UP GRANT.

  Linda fluttered the message. "Did you, Yawn?"

  "I didn't yawn, and if you don't quit using that infernal sobri-
quet, I'll —-"

  "Ah, ah, dear! Never make idle threats to your wife!"

  John grabbed her, sprawled her across a lifted knee, and raised
a threatening hand.

  "I'll 'idle threat' you, you witch!"

  Struggling, Linda turned a stricken face.

  "I won't ever again, honest. Lemme go. Where's Yagger's Landing?"

  John lifted her to her feet, dusted his hands. They both laughed,
and he kissed her.

  "That's better. Thirty-two miles from here.  That-a-way." Sweep-

== fen_wer_7 66 ==

ingly his gesture included the countryside generally from north to
south in a westerly approximation. "Let's get out of here."


  THE FOOTHILLS BEGAN almost on the outskirts of LeFarge. Logan
tooled the sleek little convertible around dizzying, hair-pin turns.
The motor labored from the climb.  Sunlight glinted on the white
safety-rail hugging the edge of smooth macadam. An occasional turn
brought glimmering peaks into distant view, pine-skirted, capped in
glistening white, hewn in bold relief against the clean, blue back-
drop of sky.

  "The glories of Nature," breathed Linda, "where the hand of man
has never trod!"

  John ignored her flippancy.

  "As far as I could find out," he said, "Yagger's landing isn't
much of a place.  I phoned the hotel there.  The clerk didn't even
know why it was called 'Landing.' There isn't a river for miles. It
has a population  of  two hundred - the town, not the river. It's
some kind of resort, I gathered, though the frogs have played hob
with business this season. Noisy, the clerk says. People don't stay
long."

  "I thought you always heard frogs in the country at night," re-
marked Linda. "I always did - I think."

  "I also telephoned Grant," Logan continued. "Some friends of his
vacationed - tried to - at Yagger's Landing.  They left after the
first night. Frogs kept 'em awake. Peculiar, too. Yagger's Landing
is dry ground.  The marsh is at the headwaters of the river I men-
tioned - fifteen miles above the town. Grant wants me to interview
the frogs and find out why they've migrated over fifteen miles of
dry land to make life miserable for tourists at Yagger's Landing.
Maybe, he says, there's a story in it. Maybe, he says, the frogs
are tired of being cooped up in marshes and are marshalling - ha,
ha, that's a good one! (quoting Grant) to descend upon civilization.
Make the most out of it, he says, if you have to write the story
around a recipe for fried frog legs.

  "You talk," said Linda, "like a feature writer. All choppy, but
to the point."

  "I don't waste words," John retorted.

  "Did you ever waste time, dear?" cooed Linda sweetly.

  Logan ignored the pointed inference to their errand.

  "Not till I met you." He leaned over and kissed her swiftly.

  "Hey, watch out! Keep your eyes on the road!"

  "Last time I did that, a truck ran over 'em, and I've been pop-
eyed ever since!"

  He screeched the convertible around a turn.


  TO SAY THAT YAGGER'S LANDING was not much aggrandized it.  Yag-
ger's Landing wasn't anything. The clerk who had claimed the popu-
lation as two hundred had lied in his teeth. Linda and John did not
see two hundred blow flies as they rolled up the dusty main street.

  "Good Lord!" said Linda.

  Logan agreed with her.  The town was barren.  Houses and stores

== fen_wer_8 66 ==

looked deserted. There wasn't even a loafer in sight. The sun dwelt
in a liquefied golden haze upon a silent tomb deserted even by its
corpse.

  John found a parking lot beside the teetering, rangy structure
of weathered clapboard that called itself a hotel, and turned off
the ignition. The shimmering engine plunked gratefully, gurgled and
grated into a kind of breathless quiet that matched the bright pall
of silence over the village.

  The inside of the hotel was no more prepossessing than the out-
side. A bit cooler, perhaps, and darker.

  On their way to the desk, John almost fell over the outstretched
legs of a man buried in a Morris chair. He sidestepped nimbly just
in time, adjusting his vision to the gloom.  The ponderous bulk in
the chair looked familiar. The keenly penetrating eyes were blanked
out now in folds of somnolent fat. The mountainous man snored thinly,
with a sound as of a multitude of frogs yodelling an infinite dis-
tance away.

  "Yes, sir. Yes sir!. You're the man who telephoned!"

  Linda looked askance at the weedy, middle-aged clerk, who held
her with his bright-eyed glance, and pointed at John.

  "No, he is."

  "Of course. Of course! Welcome to Yagger's Landing, sir! You, too,
ma'm.  I know you'll like it here at Yagger's Landing. Fine place.
Except for the frogs, like I told Mr. - uh - Nolan - uh - Logan.
Really, we don't mention the frogs  to prospective guests, but you
asked. . ."

  "Yes, I asked," said Logan. "Who's your fat friend?"

  The clerk grimaced, lowered his voice.

  "He don't belong here - not at Yagger's Landing. Disgusting, ain't
he? Whole tribe like him live up in the swamp country. Didn't used
none of 'em much to come down this way, but he's been here pretty
regular all summer. Does nothin' but loaf - goes home nights, though,
thank Goodness'." He made a motion of dusting with his hands.

  Logan felt a prickle of interest. "Town up there?"

  "Marshville.  Not named for the swamp, though.  Everybody in the
place is named Marsh.  A regular tribe of Marshes. They - yes, sir
. . .here's your key. Like I was saying, the room is nice and airy,
and you can see the mountains from the window. . . ."

  Logan was aware that the distant tittering of frogs had ceased.
He turned.  The fat man was staring at them with a certain malig-
nancy evident in his black-eyed gaze.  Only for an instant Logan
clashed glances with the man, then the puffy lids merged and the
fat man became again a somnolent mountain of flesh.


  "AN UTTERLY GRUESOME HOLE," Linda muttered succintly. Their room
was barren as the town of Yagger's Landing itself, though moderately
clean.

  "This room," queried Logan.

  "A hole within a hole. Horrible!" Linda sniffed.  "Who said this
is a resort?"

  "The clerk.  People come up here for a few days in summer.  Go

== fen_wer_9 32 ==

tramping over the mountain trails.
Excellent sport, and so good for
one."

  "Well, where are the frogs?
I haven't heard a chirp since
we've been here."

  Logan pursed his lips for a re-
ply, relaxed.  He could hear the
frogs ululating a long distance
away.

  "Listen close," he advised.

  Linda listened, twisting  her
pretty face into a frown of con-
centration.

  "Nary a frog, dear. Why listen?"

  Logan cocked his head.  "No...
can't hear a thing myself...now.
Thought I did. It's daytime, any-
way-or will be for another thirty
minutes."

  He went to the open window. Limp
curtains hung listlessly in the
still air. To westward, the moun-
tains rose gold-capped, skirted
in deep mauve and purple.  Linda
found the circle of his arm and
sighed.

  "Lovely, isn't it? It's like -
like - oh, nobody ever wrote a
poem that's like that."

  John cuddled her. "That's what
I love about you, darling.  You
appreciate things."

  Together they watched the gol-
den sun sink to meet the mountains.
Purple shadows swirled up from
slumbering valleys, danced  into
the sky to stain the blue and etch
out the stars. Twilight was brief
- then the frogs began.

  Linda slammed the window. "What
a climax!" she cried in hurt rage.

  From near and far, and seem-
ingly from within their very room,
the frogs boomed, bellowed, twit-
tered, chirped, and belled.  The
night was alive with frogs,  and
the air quivered with their noise.
The very walls shook with a hor-
rible cacophony of froggish
throats shouting in tympany glee.

== fen_wer_10 66 ==

  Linda stopped her ears against the din. "Are we supposed to sleep
through this, or do they let up after a while?"

  "As I understand it," Logan winced, "they keep it up all night
long.  That's our story - remember?  Translate that, and it means
bread and butter. Which reminds me, I'm hungry. Do they feed people
in this vile place?"

  As if on cue, a tapping came at the door.  Logan opened up.  The
clerk looked sheepinsh and miserable.

  "I'm sorry about the frogs, folks. Didn't used to be any at all in
these parts.  Terrible now-a-days -- druv the whole population out
of town except me. They . . ."

  "Is there a place around here we can eat?" Logan put in brusquely.

  "That's what I come up here to tell you.  Dinner is ready in the
Coffee Shop. You two are the only guests. I fixed your supper spec-
ial myself."

  "I guess your fat friend is gone," said Logan.

  "Don't say that! He's no friend of mine! He's - he left when the
frogs began to holler. Don't like 'em no more'n you or me, I guess."
He turned to Linda. "I'm sorry the vittles ain't better'n they are,
ma'm.  Our cook left two weeks ago.  No guest stays here longer'n,
mebbe, a night, so I get along cookin' for 'em myself."

  They ate a drab supper with the drab little man for company. . .
and the booming of the frogs. Logan found that if you concentrated
on the food, the noise seemed to diminish a little--maybe. But the
food was as bad to one sense as the noise to the other, so it wasn't
worth the effort.

  "My ears hurt," said Linda.

  "I think I'm a little deaf to the high notes," opined the clerk.

  "And the low notes don't bother me. I used to be a drummer in an
orchestra."

  Logan abandoned their cheerless repast and took Linda back up to
their room.

  "Tomorrow," he said, "we're going up to Marshville and look in on
the Marshes as well as the marsh, find a frog willing to be inter-
viewed - or failing that, a Marsh will do - and get home by tomorrow
night. Damn Grant and his frogs. Thank heaven I don't have to write
the thing here!"


  IN SPITE OF THE CLERK'S ALMOST TEARFUL PROTEST, John and Linda
drove off toward Marshville in the morning.

  "You don't want to go there!" he mourned. "All them horrible, ugly
folks. . . They — they do things—-" He put a hand over his eyes.

  "What things?" asked Logan.

  "Not Christian - you know? I- I don't know. There used to be peo-
ple in Yagger's Landing. . .before the frogs came. They. . .talked.
Said things, you understand.  Just gossip.  I only went to Marsh-
ville once.  Got the horrors and came right back.  It's not a. . .
good place."

  Marshville was an evil place.  Its main street ended in the mire
of a swamp, scummed and nauseous looking, mud-flats and stagnant
pools forested with giant cattails nodding brown, fuzzy cylinders

== fen_wer_11 66 ==

above the reeds and lesser marsh grasses. Logan turned the convert-
ible, drove back along the muddy street.

  There was an air of slothful activity about the place that had
been entirely lacking at Yagger's Landing, though houses and one-
story buildings were equally run-down.  Logan noted with interest
that the houses were almost windowless, silent in the hot breezes
of the August morning.

  A weary tree grew in the town square.  A few corpulent citizens
lolled in its shade, or sunned themselves speechlessly on the grass.
Logan spied a dirty window with the legend:  MARSHVILLE. U.S. POST
OFFICE. He left Linda in the car with a word of admonition and went
inside.

  The place appeared to be disused.  The floor was inch-deep with
dried mud.  More mud smeared the walls and the fly-specked glass
fronts of the mail boxes. Logan went to the only window and peered
into the darkness beyond.  Something stirred with a soft scraping
sound in the gloom of the back room.  Short hairs prickled on the
back of Logan's neck. A formless blob of deathly white wavered in-
to the semi-dark of the front, resolved itself into one of the
corpulent citizens of Marshville.

  He peered at Logan over puffed, greenish-white cheeks.

  "Nobody ever comes here," he rasped warningly.

  The cold scrutiny of the Marshvillian gave Logan a feeling of
annoyance.

  "I'm here," he said brusquely. "I'm looking for a hotel.  Didn't
see any sign—-"

  "No hotel," croaked the misshapen postmaster. "Nobody ever comes
here, I say'. Why should there be a hotel?"

  "I don't want to live here - or even stay over night." Logan was
impatient.  "I just want a place where my wife and I can clean up
and get a bite to eat. We're just passing through."

  The postmaster knew he lied.  Marshville was at a dead end.  You
didn't "just pass through."

  "Nobody—-" he began ponderously, then clamped his thick lips at
a croaking whisper from the dark at his back.  He shuffled from the
window and was merged with the shadows. There was a faint plopping
and clucking noise.

  Logan fretted and bit his lip. Should he walk out, or had he got
the impression that the postmaster would return? While he debated,
the postmaster dragged into view.

  "Missus Uriah Marsh," he said stolidly. "She will take you in."

  "A hotel?" said Logan.

  "No hotel, I said. Missus Marsh - Uriah Marsh - will take you in."

  He grunted directions and Logan went out.  At the threshold, he
cast a glance over his shoulder.  A pale, blobby roundness at the
postmaster's window was snatched suddenly from sight - but not sud-
denly enough to prevent Logan's recognizing the face of the fat man
he had seen in LeFarge and at Tagger's landing. Unaccountably, a
chill went through him.

  Outside, the rank swamp air smelled clean and tasted sweet after
his sojourn in that morgue of a post office.

== fen_wer_12 66 ==

  "I've found a place where we can clean up and get something to
eat, honey," he told Linda. "You can stay there and rest this after-
noon, while I look the town over. Then we'll get out of here."

  Linda offered nothing to say. She was unusually sober and quiet.
Her normally glowing charm struggled without effect against the
dismal atmosphere of the village.  In spite of the bright sun, a
shadow as dark as the mephitic odor of the swamp seemed to hover
over the town.


  MRS. URIAH MARSH HAD NO DISCERNIBLE AGE. Like all Marshvillians,
she was bursting the seams of her coarse, hand-made clothing.  Her
demeanor was bland. She spoke hoarsely.

  "Come in. It ain't often we have visitors in Marshville."

  "The man at the post office—" Logan began.

  Mrs. Marsh waved a fat hand.

  "I've had word, Mr. Logan. Come right in."

  Logan jumped.  He thought-—the fat man.  The hotel register at
Yagger's Landing. The fat man had shown undue interest to read his
name. . .and remember it.  Who. . .or what. . .was the fat man in
Marshville?  Certainly, he had instructed the postmaster to send
them here.

  Logan said, "Is Uriah a fat man - fatter than most in Marshville?"

  Mrs. Marsh nodded elephantine agreement. "He's my husband and our
mayor—-so far as we've got one.  But don't stand there-—come in.
I've got stuff fixed for you to eat."

  They ate and the food was surprisingly good. Afterward, Mrs. Marsh,
ponderously affable, showed them to a room where they could "freshen
up."  It was cool, and there wan an oil lamp burning on a stand by
the bed. The room was windowless.

  "No windows!" Exclaimed Linda.

  "Windows ain't much the fashion in Marshville," Mrs. Marsh ex-
plained. She hesitated.  "Glass is mighty expensive and breaks too
easy,"

  She turned and waddled away, leaving them alone.

  "Keeps out the smell of the swamp, at least," Logan observed. He
squeezed Linda's arm affectionately. "You lie down and rest a bit,
honey. I'll see what I can dig up around town, take a few pictures,
and we'll be on our way."

  Linda clung to him. Her voice sounded frightened and breathless. 

  "John! Don't go away and leave me here alone. I-I'm scared!"

  Logan attempted a laugh, but the resulting noise was hollow.  He
stroked Linda's dark hair and held her cheek against his chest. 

  "Darling!  This isn't like you.  After a frog-ridden night, you
need rest. Just take it easy an hour or two—"

  Linda's fingers dug into his ribs.

  "Listen!"

  Somewhere in the house, something dragged and bumped.  The sound
repeated itself a time or two, then the house grew still.

  "Just the old lady moving a sack of flour," Logan said carelessly.
"Don't get nervy now, darling.  I'll get my camera out of the car
and stroll around a little, and be back before you know it."

== fen_wer_13 66 ==

  He led her unprotesting to the bed, saw that she was comfortable,
and left the room.

  In a way, Logan didn't blame the girl. The atmosphere of the whole
town was one of brooding, abysmal depression.  And to be led,  in
broad day, into a gloomy, windowless chamber lighted only by an oil-
lamp was something on the shocking side. He hoped she would rest.

  The town square seethed sluggishly.  Double doors stood open at
the front of a windowless building opposite the post office. A crowd
of natives shuffled about the entrance, some passing inside, others
standing and greeting their neighbors.

  Logan held up his press camera and made an exposure that took in
the entire facade of the building. He hoped he could capture some-
thing of the air of sodden gloominess that infested the place.  He
went closer and made a few close-ups of the stolidly shuffling
citizens.  No one seemed to mind or pay him more attention than a
curious glance or two.

  Logan wondered what was going on.  Was this a town meeting—-or a
religious group gathering to "do" things?  Swinging his camera by
its strap, he joined the entering stream.

== fen_wer_14 66 ==

  A hand seized Logan's shoulder, pulled him out of the line. Logan
convulsed with a hot spasm of rage.

  "Why, you—-!"

  The Marshvillian regarded him with blank, puffed features.

  "Sorry. Strangers ain't wanted in here."

  "Listen," Logan said through set teeth. "I'm a reporter, see? I'll
go where I please. Now—-"

  The last of the citizenry had passed inside.  Stolidly, compla-
cently, the fat native placed a hand against Logan's chest and
pushed.

  Logan picked himself up from the dust and hardened mud of the
street, wrathful and choking; but the double doors were ominously
closed.

  There was no contesting the blank disinterest of that facade. An
aura of cold malignancy struck chill to Logan's wrath.  A reporter
gets used, he told himself, to being told no, in one form or another.

  "At least," he thought, "they don't object to my taking pictures."

  He raised his camera and spitefully photographed the post office.
Practically the entire population seemed to be attending the meet-
ing in the windowless hall. In his stroll he met an occasional old-
ster or a woman shuffling along, but never once did he see a child.
He began to wonder about this.

  His attempts to question the occasional villager he met proved
fruitless. They simply croaked and shambled on. He wandered to the
verge of the stinking swamp, photographed the giant cattails, and
never saw a single frog.

  At last he gave up and went back for Linda. The Uriah Marsh home
looked even gloomier than it had before. It had two windows only -
at the front - and these were tiny. He wondered about Mrs. Marsh's
explanation of the lack of windows. There was plenty to wonder about
in this macabre town. Even if he had found out nothing about frogs,
he already had the makings of a whale of a feature article -— with
pictures. Maybe he could weave frogs into it somehow.

  He went in. Linda was sleeping.  In spite of his care, he made
noise walking on the bare floor. Linda woke with a start, eyes wide.
Recognition flooded her glance, and she smiled tiredly.

  "I did sleep after all, dear."

  "It did you good, too," he told her jocularly. There was a damper
on his speech.  He felt too depressed with his peregrination about
town to go into details about it. "Let's go," he said.

  Linda got up with alacrity.  A brief hunt for Mrs. Marsh located
her in the kitchen. She loomed palely, ponderously, in the ill—lit
gloom. 'When Logan offered payment for the respite given them, she
shook her head heavily.

  "Glad to help."  The rasping tone of her voice made Logan wince.
"Sorry you got to go so soon. Sure you'll come back won't you?"

  The parting was an ordeal, but they made it finally to the car.
Logan put his camera away behind the seat, settled back with a
gratified sigh, and stepped on the starter.  The motor turned over
without responding. After ten minutes of cursing and prodding under
the hood, Logan gave up in exasperation.

== fen_wer_15 66 ==

  "Go ask Mrs. Marsh," he told Linda, "if there is a garage man in
town."

  Linda went and came back with Mrs. Marsh waddling behind her. 

  "Well, now, that's a shame, Mr. Logan. There's no regular garage
man-—only Luke, a sort of cousin of mine, who does know something
about cars. It'll take a little time, but I'll go fetch him for you."

  She shuffled away behind the house.

  Linda regarded her husband with large,  frightened eyes, in the
dark depths of which a certain horror swam.

  "She - she acted like she was expecting me to come back. Oh can't
we do something to get out of this horrible place? It - it frightens
me!"

  Logan shrugged gloomily.  "Not unless we get the car started,
dear. Luke will find out what's wrong." His words lacked conviction.

  The wait seemed endless.  It was fully half an hour before Mrs.
Marsh came back, towing her "sort of cousin" Luke. Luke was puffed
and bloated like every other Marshvillian Logan had seen.

  The native puttered under the hood, came up with a bit of some-
thing clamped between fat fingers.

  "Burned out," he observed laconically.

  Logan was irritated, "Can you fix it?"

  "Need a new one."

  "Get one and put it in."

  Luke became placidly stolid.

  "You can get one in LeFarge."

  Logan exploded. "LeFarge? That's fifty miles away!"

  "Forty-seven," corrected Luke.

  "How in the name of - of ...how am I going to get a part like that
from LeFarge?"

  Luke glanced at Mrs. Marsh.

  Mrs. Marsh said, "Luke, you go down to the post office and tele-
phone somebody in LeFarge to send up a part like that for Mr. Logan.
It can come in tomorrow's mail."  She turned to John and Linda.
"The only telephone in town is at the post office."

  Logan didn't care.  "Never mind," he said quickly. "We'll go to
LeFarge ourselves and send somebody back with the part to pick up
the car."

  Mrs. Marsh looked at him queerly.

  "I don't see how you can do that. There's no way to get to LeFarge
except to walk. Or wait for tomorrow's mail truck."

  Logan's nerves tingled. "Somebody must have a car and will drive us!"

  Mrs. Marsh shook her head.  "Shame. My husband owns the only car
in town. He's gone. . .visitin'. Won't be back until tomorrow." She
smiled benignly at Linda.  "You might as well have Luke telephone,
Mr. Logan."

  The resistance went out of Logan. He put a dollar in Luke's hand,
and the native shambled off.

  "Now you come right in and make yourselves to home,"  Mrs. Marsh
urged them. "You'll be comfortable here tonight, and tomorrow's as
good as today for what you have to do, I always say." She smiled at
Linda, and somehow Logan's stomach felt sickish.

== fen_wer_16 66 ==

  He looked at Linda and read the defeat in her eyes. They got out
their bags and went into the house with Mrs. Marsh.

  "As long," Logan said gloomily,  "as we're going to have to stay
here, I might as well develop my film tonight and check those shots."

  Linda had a headache. She lay on the bed and rested, while Logan
got bottled chemicals and the film holders from the car.  A little
later, when he had lighted the lamp again, Logan held up the films
one by one and swore.  It was all clear celluloid - not the ghost
of an image.

  Logan got out his camera and checked.  The curtain shutter was
tied open, as he kept it.  The front shutter functioned perfectly.
He distinctly remembered removing the dark slides. In the dim glow
of the lamp, Linda's eyes were large and dark.

  "If you took pictures, there should be pictures on the film,
shouldn't there?"

  "There should," Logan agreed dispiritedly. "Something went wrong
somewhere."

  Linda whimpered. "John! John - let's leave - on foot if we have to."

  He put his arm around her.  "Linda, darling!  It's fifteen miles
through the wildest kind of country back to Yagger's Landing, even!
We'd be no better off there than here."

  Linda appeared genuinely frightened.

  "John - there's evil in this place - awful, horrible evil! I can
feel it through and through me!  Silver rejects evil, John. Silver
is a charm against bad things. The silver in your film - oh, John!"

  Logan held her close and tried to soothe her frightened sobbing.
Abruptly, she held her breath, listening. Something dragged in an-
other part of the house.  It bumped, like a thing soft and heavy
dropped from a height. The curious sound was repeated several times.

  "John, Mrs. Marsh wouldn't spend the whole afternoon moving - or
thumping - a sack of flour around, would she?"

  They listened while the sound continued. Finally it stopped. Logan
stroked Linda's hair.

  "You worry too much about nothing, dear. Lie back and try to rest."

  He laid her gently back upon the pillow. Linda closed her eyes.
Her face was drawn and pale, waxen in the dim shine of the lamp.
Soon the sound of her even breathing told him that she slept.

  Logan went out to the car, glared at it futilely, and fished in
the trunk for a few essentials.  Time had passed swiftly.  It was
nearly sunset. Mrs. Marsh met him at the door with an invitation to
supper."

  "I don't believe I'd care for anything, thanks," he told her. "My
wife is sleeping, and I'd rather not disturb her.  I think perhaps
she'll sleep the night through."

  Linda did sleep, even after the croaking of the frogs began with
the sunset.  Somehow the noise seemed more bearable here than at
Yagger's Landing. The windowless walls muffled the sound. Logan felt
an overpowering weariness. He lay down beside Linda, not bothering
to undress, and slept.

  Hours later, Logan aroused. He reached to touch Linda.  The room
was pitch dark. The lamp had used up its oil, or somebody had come

== fen_wer_17 66 ==

in and blown out the flame.  His groping hand felt only the coarse
weave of the coverlet.

  Dazed, he whispered her name.

  "Linda!"  The syllables slithered like a nameless serpent in the
dark. He applied flame to the wick. Linda was not in the room. Con-
fused with sleep, he took out his watch, but he had forgotten to
wind it, and it was useless to tell the time.  He went to the door
and called Linda.

  The house echoed with a creeping, repulsive silence.  Away from
the feeble, yellow glow of the lamp, the shadows seemed like mon-
sters crouched to spring.  He recoiled, took up the lamp with a
feeling of mounting alarm.

  "Linda!" His voice cracked hoarsely on the final syllable.

  The booming of the frogs mocked him. The noise they made pounded
against his skull, breaking the tenuous threads of thought in his
mind. He carried the lamp from room to room and found no one. Leav-
ing it on a stand in the hall, he went out to the car and got a
flashlight. Its cold, white cone of illumination offered some meas-
ure of comfort.

  Where should he look next? The house was empty. Where was Linda?
Where was Mrs. Marsh? Had Linda gone some place with the Marshvill-
ian? It was absurd to suppose so. Where could he look for her?

  A full moon rode high in the sky.  He skirted frosty patches of
moonlight in the yard, casting his torchlight into the shadows and
calling Linda's name. At the back stoop, he found his first clue -
a footprint, and definitely Linda's. She wore the only pair of high-
heeled shoes he had seen in town.

  With quickening hope, he went in the direction indicated by the
pointing toe. Another print marred the dust at the rear gate. There
was a weedy alley here that abutted against the back of a tumbled
out-building. He turned down its length, casting his light ahead.

  Where the alley debouched into a street of windowless houses,
the dust was heavily tracked, many broad footprints overlaying the
marks Linda had left. Logan panted.

  He felt cold. Something was going on here. What?  Why had Linda
gone away - and with whom?  She would never of her free will have
left him alone in the middle of the night.  Yet the marks she left
showed where they were not overtrodden that she had walked freely,
easily, of her own accord. Logan followed more quickly.

  In the open, the croaking of frogs was intolerable to his ears.
He palmed one ear to muffle the sound, and played his light on the
ground.

  Was Linda walking in her sleep?  She never had, that he knew of.
Had she been led by guile?  Were all the Marshvillians abroad to-
night? Their tracks were thick with and overlaying Linda's.

  He came to the town's edge. He smelled the scent of pines, mingled
with the marsh smell. The ground was steep and rocky. Logan's breath
came in ragged gasps. He stumbled and dropped his light. The light
went out. He fumbled and found it, but it no longer worked. He cursed
the thing and stumbled up the hill, ripping through underbrush un-
til his clothes were in tatters.  The threnodic cacophony of the

== fen_wer_18 66 ==

frogs beat upon his nerves with a sawing rhythm. He topped the rise
and staggered out into the open moonlight. The bare hillside sloped
before himto the grim mire of the swamp. The air quivered with the
shrilling and booming of frogs.

  There was shadowy movement at the swampside.  A large crowd of
shapes weaved in the elusive moonlight. Logan plunged ahead, panting.
His mind groped for the vague thread that connected this place,
these events, and the frogs.

  Moonlight glittered pale silver on the stagnant face of the swamp.
Dark hills stood round, soaking their cattailed feet in the mire .
Logan sobbed.

  "Linda!"

  Linda, dark hair shining in the light of the moon, stood naked,
thigh-deep, in the putrid water of the swamp.  The Marshvillians
were clustered thick behind her, splashing in the cattails, shout-
ing - no, croaking abominably as she went slowly forward, arms up-
lifted, white skin like molten silver in the moonshine.

  "Linda!" Logan screamed again and tore madly down the slope.

  He ran, slipped, stumbled.  The mire was about his knees, about
his thighs.  Stinking mud splashed into his face.  A hand clutched
at him, and he struck at the puffy face above with the dead flash-
light. The Marshvillian fell back, yammering frightfully.

  Then Linda was in his arms, pale, relaxed, mired with slime, and
the thing Logan saw he could never create again in the mind of him.
SOMETHING rose up out of the water - SOMETHING that bore vague re-
semblance to Uriah Marsh - SOMETHING that might have been him . . .
or might have fathered him. There was a fat, wide mouth, that yawned
in the moonglow, and dark things that came out of it, sprawling,
wriggling Things that explained, perhaps, why there were no chil -
dren in Marshville.

  Logan yelled then and struggled back the way he had come, forcing
his way through clusters of giant cattails, Linda relaxed and quiet
in his arms.  Through the crowd of vocalizing Marshvillians he
splashed, beset with horror - for these were no longer human who
croaked and ululated, green-dappled and slimy, with webbed, waving
paws and bulging eyes and wide-open, croaking maws.

  Somehow Logan made it, back through the noise and din of frogs,
back through the moon-barred alleys of the pine forest and the shad-
owed village street; and because there was no place else to go, back
to the house of Uriah Marsh.

  There, gasping in bloody agony for breath, Logan laid Linda upon
a sofa where he could look at her in the shine of the lamp. He whis-
pered her name over and over and wiped futilely at the mire sliming
her body.

  Linda stirred, opened her eyes, and smiled up at him.

  "I just had the most amazing dream, dear.  I dreamed - I dreamed
I was queen over a great race of frogs!"

  Logan shuddered, dropped to his knees at her side.

  "It was just a dream, darling. Forget it! Forget it - please!"

  Linda's eyes were open wide and raptly staring - no, bulging!
Helpless with horror, Logan watched, heard her speak, and every word

== fen_wer_19 66 ==

on a lower, more rasping note.

  "I - was - queen - and - I - loved - it!"

  In the yellow lamplight, her skin took on an unholy sheen - dap-
pled green and white. She smiled. . .smiled - God, no! Her mouth...
Logan shrieked then - shrieked as only a man can in agony of soul
- and long and long he stayed there on his knees, shrieking help-
lessly, mindlessly, long and long after he heard the last, slith-
ering bump of the Thing that had been Linda, hopping grotesquely
out of the house to rejoin its worshipping subjects.


                             THE END









                          MOON CALF
                          
                                By
                          
                          Rory  Falkner









    When I was a wee lad, the moon was a goblin,
      A blank pumpkin-face that peered in through the pane;
    A flat silver plate that a cow could jump over;
      A bowl that tip-tilted, and poured out the rain.
    

    When I was a stripling, I worshipped the new moon—-
      That slim lovely crescent, that silver sea-shell!
    She danced through my dreams like she danced through the
                       cloud-drifts,
      And no mortal mistress could shatter her spell.


    My manhood I wasted in moon-haunted dreaming
      Of beauty untouched in a world still unknown. . . .
    Now, younger men, riding the thundering fire-jets
      Will ravish the moon-goddess I called my own!

== doomsroad_21 66 ==

  THE HIGHWAY WORE A SHROUD OF FOG. Mellis glanced at her husband's
anxious face.  He was leaning forward, peering beyond the few feet
of yellow glare billowing in front of their headlights. Mellis' con-
fidence in Dave bent back the little finger of fear that tried to
pry a scream from her lips.  She felt a sudden desire to talk, to
say something. . .anything to relieve the tension that corded her
throat. She choked down the impulse, strained her own eyes into the
murky dark. Fog undulated evilly in the beam of their lights, like
a horde of saffron ghosts dancing a Sabbat of unholy festival.

  The car moved at a snail's pace. Mellis forced her eyes to leave
the road, seek again her husband's strained face. It was a handsome
face, full of the glow and brightness of youth.  He glanced fleet-
ingly at Mellis. There was a flash of his old, familiar smile.

  "We'll get there yet. . ."

  He did not finish, for the road demanded his full attention. Mel-
lis caught the oncoming glare out of the corner of her eye.  She
turned swiftly, blinded by the lights, big and horrible, bright and
terrible, that bore down upon them. They were close--damnably close.

== doomsroad_24 66 ==

lights! And a motor that hummed and sang.  She wanted to shout and
laugh and sing with it. She wanted, too, to cry and dance. She wan-
ted to fall down upon that rough, obscure road and pray. . . she
wanted. . .Dave!

  The vehicle was near, now. She could see the vague outline of it
through the fog, which seemed to be thinning. The outline struck a
familiar chord in Mellis' brain, and she could recognize the mach-
ine for what it was—a bus! It showed plainly now.

  Mellis stood in the middle of the road, unmindful of the danger
of being run down by the bus, and waved her arms furiously, calling
out into the muffling miasma of fog. The bus was a benevolent giant,
breathing a warm friendliness in the heated smell of its exhaust
as it ground to a stop a few paces away. It was a little island, a
tiny world of light and warmth and friendliness in the vast empti-
ness of the fog-cosmos. Mellis touched the hot metal of the hood as
she went by, thrilled as the heat stung her fingers.  A wild hope
seized her. . .hope that Dave was aboard. . .would be awaiting her
with his proud, pleasant smile, a light of joy in his eyes.

  The doors swung apart.  Mellis climbed into the bus.  Light. . .
and the warm smell of humanity.  The driver smiled at her, and she
felt warm all over.  He was an angel, she thought. . .an angel of
kindly mercy.  She stood on the step inside the door, and suddenly
she panicked.  She had no money.  Her purse. . .she had left it in
the car. The driver smiled at her hesitation,

  "No fare on this line, miss. Just find a seat."

  Mellis felt wonderfully relieved.  "Thanks. . .oh, thanks!  I—-I
was afraid you'd pass me by."

  He shook his head. "I always see my passengers. . .always."

  His tone bore a certain sureness. Mellis wondered, for a second,
if she were wise to ride this bus.  She smiled then, reproachfully
and to herself. Absurd! Everything was all right!

  Mellis became gradually aware of the other passengers. They were
quiet, at peace. One was a little old woman. Her face wore the chil-
dishly dazed expression common to the very old. There was an old man
--his bald head glistened in the shine of the dome lamps. Mellis'
searching eyes hopefully scanned every passenger. . .a young woman
with a baby at her breast, a large man with scars twisting across
his face, a small boy clutching a baseball in one small, grimy fist.
There were no more. Hope faded. Dave was not aboard.

  She glanced at the driver, intended to question him, urge the bus
to greater speed.  The driver was studying the road intently, keen
eyes alert for passengers waiting in the fog.

  "I don't miss any. . .they all ride this bus," the driver tossed
back over his shoulder. He had missed Dave.  But Dave had not been
standing beside the road. Dave was. . . .

  The bus rumbled through the fog. The road, now smooth, now rocky,
was robbed of its terror for Meilis. Exhausted, she slept.

  Mellis awakened with a start. The driver was shaking her gently.
He smiled, silently, as she thanked him.

  She joined the others moving toward the exit.  She was impatient
to get off, but the others were ahead of her. She wanted to get in—

== doomsroad_25 66 ==

to the station and to a telephone.  Again a panic of desperation
seized her. Why were these people so slow? Why did they not hurry?
Of course, they had no cause to hurry. None of them had a Dave. . .
somewhere behind on the fog-locked highway, injured, perhaps. . .

  At last she reached the door and stepped down. There was no sound,
no light, nothing to indicate a town or terminal.  She was afraid,
and she hesitated, but the others were moving on, so Mellis followed.

  Something showed dimly ahead. The terminal? No. . .it was a wall,
solid and high. . .high! There was a gate, a small gate in a great
big wall. There was a sign over the gate that Mellis read with dif-
ficulty: "BE YE AT PEACE WHO ENTER HERE, AND PEACE SHALL COME UNTO
YOU."

  Mellis' co-travellers passed through the gate, but she paused,
stricken with doubt. She glanced back at the bus. It was an indis-
tinct, shadowy mass in the fog, windows glowing saffron.  It was
slowly moving, turning around for the trip back.  Mellis shrugged
and passed through the gate.

  She passed through the gate into a confusion of noise and light.
There were people. Smiling, happy people.  It vias like a big city
terminal, with everywhere people enthusiastically  greeting each
other.  She knew from the bustling stir of the numberless horde of
people that there were other busses and other gates. Music drifted
over the noise of the happy throng, soft, sweet music, ethereal in
the poignant harping of its chords. The sound throbbed with a sin-
gular beauty, pulsated a paean of joy in Meilis' ears.

  Her eyes sparkled. She was not alone any more. . .so many people!
No fog in her eyes. . .no fear in her heart! This was supreme hap-
piness.  She looked quickly about, darting her glance in search of
a phone booth and saw none.

  There was a man, his back toward her. She touched him timorously
on the shoulder.

  "I beg your pardon. . ." she said.

  The man turned, and the words choked in Mellis' throat.

  "Dave!" she cried. "Oh. . .Dave!"

  "Mellis. . .Mellis, darling!"

  There was gladness in his voice, joy in the shine of his eyes.
Mellis was aware of her tears, of Dave's kisses. Nothing mattered,
any more, only this. . .this and Dave!

  People were streaming past them now, pressing forward with eager,
alert expressions toward an effulgence of golden light that poured
in horizontally beneath the vaulted ceiling. Dave's grip on Mellis'
hand was a tight promise of forever assurance. Together, they fell
in with the crowd, walked hand in hand into the golden light. . . .


  BEYOND THE GATE, at the end of the fogbound highway, Azrael turn-
ed the ponderous bus back upon its fated way. A bus! In yesteryear,
it had been a procession, then a chariot of fire, and now. . .a
bus! What will it be tomorrow? Whatever, he thought, it will never
miss a passenger.  He pressed a foot upon the accelerator.  If you
do not ride with him this trip, you will. . .eventually.


                               THE END

== rainbow_cities_26 66 ==

                       RAINBOW CITIES
         
         
         
         
         Our ancient legends whisper of a place
         
         
         Near the Antarctic waste of ice and snow,
         
         
         Where dwell strange beings, not of Terra's race,
         
         
         But sprung from other stars, whence from below
         
         
         They voyage ceaselessly from star to star,
         
         
         Guiding their airy spaceships, while we gaze
         
         
         In fear upon the sight, and in amaze
         
         
         Do wonder who the unknown travelers are.
         
         
         
         But far above the glacial Southern pole
         
         
         Unearthly towers of magic cities rise,
         
         
         Arrayed in rainbow colors; human eyes
         
         
         Have never viewed them; nor has mortal soul
         
         
         Beheld their fearful beauty, as they stand
         
         
         Flaunting a splendor wrought by alien hand.
         
         
                                           --Emili A.

== rainbow_city_27 66 ==

  TODAY ON THE ANTARCTIC CONTINENT, ancient, all-plastic Rainbow-
City is again opened and being used. It is located in an open val-
ley, shaped somewhat like a dumbbell, about twenty-five miles long
by ten wide. The city is in the narrowest part of the valley, some-
where near its center.

  If you will look at a map of India, you will readily see the long
peninsula reaching southward into the Indian Ocean.  Go directly
south from this point to the edge of the Antarctic Continent. Con-
tinue inland for 500 miles, and there is the approximate location
of Rainbow City Valley.

  This valley is surrounded by ice walls ten thousand feet high. In
winter, low hanging fogs veil the valley from curious eyes. In sum-

== rainbow_city_28 66 ==

mer, reflected light from the ice cliffs casts confusing patterns
in the sky and air.  Rainbow City itself is free of ice and enjoys
a temperate climate.

  At an altitude of about 5000 feet above sea-level, it has an av-
erage summer temperature of about 65° Fahrenheit, and in winter,
the temperature is maintained at an average of 10° lower. Due to
the fact that investigation is not yet completed, it is not known
whether this temperature is owing entirely to hot springs, to heat
producing machines, or to both.  It is known that there are heat
producing machines capable of keeping the valley warm, and some of
them are in operation at present.

  Rainbow City was located around Thanksgiving, 1942, under orders
of the Ancient Three—-Who Were, Who Are, and Who Will Be. Discovery
was made by a group flying the first Circle-Winged Plane Space Ship.
This ship was built in Hungary just prior to the outbreak of World
War II. The men on the ship were led by a man named "Emery."

  Because of the fact that there is a continual war of ice cold and
valley warmth around Rainbow City, violent air currents are in con-
tinuous action.  An ordinary plane would find it difficult, if not
impossible, to land in the valley. The space ship has special pro-
pulsion units that enable it to stand still in the air, go forward,
stop, go straight up or down as desired.  This space ship settled
into the large park near the Rainbow Temple in the center of the 
city.

  Rainbow City is built of a super hard plastic, in all the colors
of the rainbow. This plastic readily scratches or crushes ordinary
diamonds.

  When the party landed from the space ship, they found the lights
on in the streets and in some of the buildings.  The light has at
least two sources. The hard plastic walls of the buildings give off
an illumination which can be varied in color and intensity by man-
ipulation of switches in the walls.  Another source of light is a
special lamp found in the five levels of the underground city. This
light is very much like sunlight, and has an effect of revitalizing
or renewing the air.

  Rainbow Temple is a large structure covering about four city blocks
on a side.  It rises in steps or tiers several hundred feet into
the air. It is the tallest building in the city. Stretching out and
around Rainbow Temple are buildings that could be the same as our
modern stores, as their windows fronting the streets are filled
with articles useful in the homes and on the farms.  The buildings
near Rainbow Temple are two and a half stories high; around them
are buildings two stories high; farther out are buildings only one
story high, and residences. There are no slums.

  Rainbow City is one of seven all-plastic cities on the Antarctic
Continent and the only one accessible at the present time.  These
cities were built perhaps as long ago as 50,000 years by the orig-
inal colonists from Mars, who were our ancestors.  These Antarctic
cities were the source of the settlers in ancient Lemuria, and
later in Atlantis.

  The valley has numerous plastic roads leading to farms and small

== rainbow_city_29 66 ==

farm communities.  The roads and houses in the valley are made of
the same plastic material as Rainbow City itself. In the valley are
many buildings for the storage of farm machinery and produce. Also
in the valley was found a large building that housed a space ship
used by the Ancient Three for interplanetary voyaging long ago.

  The study of a city far ahead of anything known on earth is a
complex and almost endless job. We speak today with a certain amount
of pride in our invention and development of the atom bomb.  Some
work is going on toward the development of atomic energy as a source
of power. In Rainbow City are three-wheeled automobile-like vehicles
using a form of atomic energy as a source of power NOW. Also in the
valley are many pieces of farm machinery that are powered by small
blocks of material which produce the atomic energy.  The complete
story of Rainbow City includes a completely new (to us) language,
a new science (205 elements), and a new system of mathematics to
the base 7.  Also, countless machines, most of which have not been
understood after seven years work by hundreds of the best minds on
earth today.

  Below Rainbow City are five levels that extend not less than four
miles or more beyond the boundaries of the surface city of houses,
repair shops, factories, hydroponic gardens, storehouses, etc. Be-
low this subsurface city is a gigantic railroad terminal with large
yards filled with trains ready to operate. The trains are composed
of an engine each and several cars.  The engines measure about a
hundred feet in diameter and two hundred feet in length. Each coach
is about 390 feet long.

  Radiating from Rainbow City to all the world is a complex system
of tunnels lined with a special hard and strong alley of metal.
The tunnels are a little over a hundred feet in diameter. The trains
in operation float free of the walls.  Most of these tunnels and
tunnel terminals are closed.  Only those connecting Rainbow City
with Tibet are in use. These trains have test-performed at a speed
in excess of 2000 miles per hour.

  Rainbow City Valley has numerous large shade trees and a number
of fruit bearing trees with fruit unknown to the rest of the world.
Here were found butterflies with wings several feet across and
bodies large enough to fill a platter. Aside from these, the valley
is remarkably free from insects.

  Power comes to Rainbow City from a large generator in an enormous
cavern under the Blue City, elsewhere on the Antarctic continent.
It has a vertical shaft and many pick-up brushes set at varying
distances from the central shaft.  It was in operation when found,
and it is still in operation. Large cables cany the power to Rain-
bow City.  There the power enters a large container filled with a
peculiar vibrating liquid of unknown composition. From this liquid-
filled transformer, power in liquid form is piped to various parts
of the city.  Wires also carxy a current that is more familiar to
the world at large.

  The Ancient Three specialize  in the three great departments of
human activity-—physical, mental, and spiritual.  All share their
combined knowledge and combine their efforts to bring peace, har-

== rainbow_city_30 66 ==

mony, progress and happiness to all the world.

  With the Ancient Three at Rainbow City are about 2000 people,
according to last report.  Many of these are women and children.
Some prefer to work the farms in the valley, which work is most
familiar to them.  Many entered the valley from the United States,
via Tibet.

  In the Rainbow Temple are three completely equipped apartments,
one for each of the rulers.  The doors are operated by a code word
and by pressure applied to a certain place.  The bedclothing, gar-
ments, and furnishings are all of a fire-proof plastic.  In each
apartment is a vibratory unit into which clothing is placed for
cleaning. This is a kind of furnace that burns out all impurities.

  In each apartment built for the rulers is a special room called
the "Portal." This room is about seven by ten feet in size, with a
large television screen at the end, and near it a door that opens
upon a blank wall. When in operation, the "Portal" machine can tune
in and see and hear any person or place on earth or in the earth,
can read the thought of any person or group imaged on the television
screen. At present, "Portal" machines reach out as far as the moon,
but not much farther. Later, when piped power becomes more readily
available, it is expected to reach far out beyond the moon.

  The Portal, however, has many other uses than this. It can be used
to trace into the past any person, place or thing, to its absolute
beginning. The use of the Portal has proved that everyone has lived
many times on this earth.  People and places of the past, in sound
and color, can be seen NOW. In tracing past events, the door beside
the television screen remains closed and cannot be opened.

  However, when the Portal is tuned to the present, a special con-
trol locks the Portal at that place.  Then the Portal door may be
opened and it is possible to step out of that place and instantly
into anyplace on earth or the moon.  This means of teletransport
is the most efficient transportation method the world has ever seen.

  Below the first floor of Rainbow Temple, in a sealed room, were
found a great number of robot bodies preserved by a special gas and
left there by the Serpent Race. These were destroyed to avoid pos-
sible danger from that inimical race of beings. A twelve-foot spec-
imen of the Serpent Race was found alive in an apartment at the
apex of the pyramid-shaped Rainbow Temple.  This individual, pro-
foundly hoped to be the last of his odious race, committed suicide
when discovered.

  (This material was prepared especially for The Nekromantikon by
Mr. Spaulding from 200 pages of writings and letters from Mr. and
Mrs. W. C. Hefferlin, 1040 Leavenworth Street, San Francisco.)


                             THE END

== rainbow_city_postscript_30 60 ==

FALL NUMBER:
"Twilight over Avalon" by M. Houston - a fine novelette by
this talented writer. Also, fiction, articles, verse - a line-
up you won't want to miss.  If you don't subscribe, send 25¢
and have a copy reserved for you.

== mr_hodgett_31 66 ==

  "Ghost? Pooh, pooh and tommyrot! Never was a ghost. If there was,
what could a ghost be? Dead men are buried. Their bodies weigh as
much as in life, minus a few grams paid to evaporation and loss of
body fluids. A ghost, if any, could be only a vapor, like the will
o' the wisps of methane gas escaping from swamps and sometimes ig-
niting by friction."

  Pompous Mr. Harvey Hodgett was expressing himself upon a subject
he knew nothing about.  I decided to take him down a few pegs. I
knew how.  I knew a house on Clay Street that was really haunted,
and I don't mean only by things that go bump in the night!  Anyone
could see what went on in the Clay Street house!

  I decided to contribute only one bit of stage-setting to the show.

== mr_hodgett_32 66 ==

I went to the house ahead of H. H., who had accepted my invitation,
and buried a gold piece bearing the date 1855, an issue of the San
Francisco mint worth more than its weight in gold.  I buried it
shallowly in the gravel of the path leading to the front door of
1211 Clay Street.

  H. H.  arrived,  blustering,  as usual, calling the whole thing
nonsense.

  I kicked up the coin, as if by accident, as we approached the
front door. I showed it to H. H.

  "Holloa!" said he. "Nothing ghostly about that, and don't try to
tell me it's an apport! Apport! Pooh! No use for words that mean
nothing, apply to nothing. People who pick money from the air! Pack
of fools. Belong in asylums for making such absurd claims. This gold
is cuprous, but as a coin it's worth a lot more than a double eagle.
American river gold!"

  "You seem to like to hold gold," I said. "You may keep it in your
hand until we come out, but don't lose it, whatever you do."

  "Do? Do?  I'll do just what you tell me.  Sit where you say, but
I'll not promise not to go to sleep and drop this piece."

  "Ha! I'd like to see you sleep through the next quarter hour!"

  I had timed our arrival just so. The show would start almost the
minute we entered the dining room and took seats opposite the but-
ler's swing door entry, across from the big dining table of age-
dark mahogany.  All the furniture had been left in place, despite
the difficulty in keeping the house rented.

  H. H. settled his bulk in a strong and easy leather padded chair
and sat tossing the coin from hand to hand. It glinted in the light
of the candle I had stuck in a saucer on our side of the table.

  Across the table from H. H., a space to my right, was an empty
chair, its back to the pantry door. It did not remain empty.

  "Who's that queer duck, a Chink?" asked H. H.

  I shushed him and we watched the old Chinese set a small chest
on the table before the chair opposite us, then seat himself in the
chair, raise the lid of the coffer and begin to count and stack
goldpieoes on the table.  I nudged H. H. and pointed to the swing
door. It was open about half a foot, when, though we could not see
it, a cat entered. The cat mewed, and we saw its head appear above
the table level as it leaped into the chair upon the miser's left,
our right, across the table from us with the widening crack of the
door behind it.  The old Chinese set down a tall stack of double
eagles like the one in H. H.'s hand—-still there, he hadn't drop-
ped it yet—and leaned aside to pet the cat.

  In doing so, his head turned toward the opening door so that the
side of his left eye saw the cleft and read its hideous meaning. He
kicked his chair back and dashed behind the cat, around the end of
the table on our right. After him, through the now wide open door,
leaped a young Chinaboy, a long slim knife in his hand.  He struck
at the old man but missed.  Both disappeared into the hall through
which we had entered, and I rose to follow them.

  H. H. stood up too, asking, "Who are these actors?  Did you hire
them? That was a tense moment!"

== mr_hodgett_33 66 ==

  "Actors!" I said scornfully.  "Hurry into the hall!  Look up the
stairs!"

  Looking up the stairs, we both saw the enrobed old Chinaman still
leading the race, but the bloodthirsty knife was gaining on his
back.  Had the boy thought to hurl it-—but he was too late when he
thought of it. The old man reached the top of the flight and pushed
back downstairs, upon the boy, a heavy chest of drawers that stood
at the flighthead. The booming of its descent, its drawers sliding
back and forth and rattling against the banisters, was horrid—-
the shrill scream of despair voiced by the youth was the most ter-
rific sound I have ever encouraged myself to hear more than the
first time. Youth and cabinet came to the bottom together, the cab-
inet having all the advantage of the fall.

  The old man descended the stair, hurried, breathing heavily, into
the dining room.  He dashed the gold back into the chest, put the
chest under one palsied arm and the cat under the other, and left
by the front door.  As he descended the steps, a gold piece slith-
ered out of the crack of the hastily closed lid and rang cheerily
on the bricks, tinkling off into the gravel.

  "That goldpiece in your hand, H. H.," I said, "is the very one
that you just heard ringing. Its ringing gave me the clue to search
for it in the walk, where I found it several months ago. This piece
is re-enacted every night at the same hour. Some can see it. Others
can only hear its sounds.  You are lucky to have been able to wit-
ness the whole show with both eyes and ears.  What have you to say
now about ghosts?"

  "Hurry!" said the practical H. H.  "Let's follow that old fellow
and find out where he hid his chest.


                               THE END

== house_of_shadows_37 66 ==

  Turn left at the second intersection on Victoria Avenue and fol-
low River Street to its termination.  There you will find the old
Hester Mansion. It is separated from other houses by wide-spread, 
undulating lawns and dense shrubbery. The mansion itself sits on a
gentle, grassy knoll overlooking the hindermost part of Newfork Bay.
Several tall magnolia trees crowd jealously about it, a shelter
against the winds that continually blow in from the sea;  and num-
erous, interlacing creepers twine around the grey stucco walls in
a saprophytic embrace. River Street ends upon a tiny wharf to which
are usually moored two or three private boats.

  The house was built by a Hester and inhabited by Hesters on down
to the last of the line—old Vera Hester, who died without husband,
child, or known relative. She did have a relative, but several years
elapsed before he was found. Henry Drake was a fourth cousin. After
he had paid off the accumulated taxes, Henry Drake came into pos-
session of the house.

  Henry had been living in London, working as a journalist for a
prominent newspaper. He had already decided to come to America and
settle down.  Before moving, however, he contracted with a firm in
London to write a long treatise on superstitions, especially as
practiced among illiterate mountaineers of America.

  Henry liked Hester Mansion at first sight.  Many of the furnish-
ings were perhaps antiquated, he thought, but they could be gradu-
ally replaced.  The grounds were delightful, ideal for his periods
of contemplation. There were five rooms downstairs and four up, ex-
cluding the bath. When he got tired of one room, he could move into
another, he told himself half-humorously.

  He decided to take the fifth chamber, on the side facing the bay,
as his study.  The only immediate change he made was to take down
the purple damask curtains and replace them with gay yellow chif-
fon. The room was thereby considerably brightened.

  The bath was just across the hall, the kitchen next door.  These
conveniences had been partly instrumental in his choice of the fifth
chamber. But more attractive was the view it afforded. Beneath the
overhanging branches of a heavily leafed magnolia, the bay appeared
blue and charming in the distance.  Occasionally a tiny boat would
idle past within range of his vision. Someone fishing, or just joy-
riding with a sweetheart. With the window open he could hear faint
laughter.

  Henry went to work immediately on the treatise, working up mater-
ial he already had on the subject.  He would work from nine in the
morning to noon.  Following lunch, he would take a short stroll;
either along the banks of the bay, down town, or to the grocery
store at the end of the block.

  At two p.m, he would return to his study and work until five or
six o'clock.  Sometimes he would break this routine, for Henry was
not one to let his way of life become too much of a habit.

  He had lived in the house for two weeks before he noticed the
peculiar atmosphere—-not smelled, but Felt. At first, he attribu-
ted this to the long inoccupancy the dwelling had suffered. But as
he grew more sensitive to this peculiarity, he modified his opinion.

== house_of_shadows_38 66 ==

There was something else. The house would not become familiar, homey;
rather it maintained an aloof—-even resentful—-feeling to him. In-
explicably, as if sentient, it seemed to reject his presence.  The
house refused to make friends.

  This, he concluded sternly, won't do.  It is a big old house for
one person. It will take time to lose this feeling. Perhaps old Vera
Hester had wanted the house to die uninhabited. Along with her. As
empty as she was. Although he debunked the supernatural in his art-
icles, Henry actually believed in psychic residue to some extent.
Not that that was necessarily supernatural. A house would naturally
retain some of the personality of the person who lived in it for a
considerable length of time.  Vera Hester must not have had a good
personality.

  Finally he shrugged all these speculations aside and reasoned that
the basis of his feeling was caused solely by the physical aspect
of the house. The place was oppressively gloomy. The living room had
black oaken floors, uncarpeted, and the walls were papered a dull
brown. The corners were the worst. The house had too many corners.
They were angled, as if deliberately, so as to produce deep shadows
—-even on a sunshiny day with the window curtains drawn aside.  In
every room except the bath, which was modern in every respect, Henry
noticed the peculiarly angled corners. And the constant shadows that
coalesced there.

  Electric lights had never been installed. Henry planned to remedy
this oversight in the near future. First he wanted to complete his
treatise. He would just have to ignore the atmosphere. It was psych-
ically unpleasant, but not unbearable. After he had fixed the place
up a bit, modernized it, it would be as charming within as without,
he reflected.

  He finished half the treatise, and found himself stagnated.  He
knew what he wanted to write; the facts were before him. Yet, every
time he started, the words would not come out in smooth sequence.
He would erase, re-write, scratch out, re-write again.  Henry knew
something was intruding on his concentration—the atmosphere of the
house itself. He could not ignore it. He was to the point of feel-
ing uncomfortable—even uneasy.

  He left his study and walked down by the bay. There was purity in
the wind. It wafted the webs of gloom from his mind, cooled his face
with its soothing caress.

  Out on the water a man and boy were fishing. The boy laughed with
delight. The day was bright.  Sunshine sparkled golden in the bay.
To leave the house was to step out of a musty, sombre crypt.

  He looked back at the mansion. On the outside it was still attrac-
tive. Creepers wove green traceries about it in beautiful patterns.
The magnolias, in full blossom, guarded it solidly from the bold
glance of the outsider.

  Outsider! Why had that word come to mind?

  Yes, that was it. He was an outsider. The house had been unoccupied
for many years, and it wanted to remain that way.

  "I own it," Henry told himself. "I'll change it to suit myself!"

  It would take time and money, but he could not live in a house

== house_of_shadows_39 66 ==

full of shadows.  Whoever had first built Hester Mansion had had a
peculiar sense of architecture.  He made a mental note to find out
something about his ancestors. Why had they wanted so many corners?
Was the odd geometry the result of poor craftsmanship?

  He strolled to the back of the house; into the walled garden. There
a larger and more beautiful magnolia cast an expansive patch of
shade.  He would have it cut down before he could contemplate a
kitchen garden, and cultivate the weed-grown lot, moreover.

  Henry went back inside to his study, and took up a book.  Later,
he ate meagerly and went to bed. His dreams were filled with a cur-
ious disquiet. Invisible presences seemed to watch him.  They were
intangible presences, sentient. . .evil. Wakening, he decided to
make immediate arrangements to have electric lights installed. The
early morning sunlight streamed through the windows of his study
and he felt like writing some more on the treatise. He breakfasted
on eggs, bacon, toast, creamed oatmeal, orange juice and hot coffee.
Then began to pound his typewriter. The words came freely, a flood
of inspired rhetoric. Noon found him two-thirds finished...but tem-
porarily stymied. He had reached a spot that required more research.

  Leaving the house, he automatically checked the mailbox.  There
was one envelope, surprisingly, addressed to him in a fine, spidery
hand. There was no return address.

  Curious, Henry ripped it open and extracted a small note sheet.
A single sentence wavered across the page:

  Your lease has expired; please vacate the house.

  He was astonished. He stared at the paper uncomprehendingly. There
was no letterhead, no signature. He looked for the postmark. It was
smudged, unreadable. What lease? He had no lease! The house was HIS.

  Who would write to him in so preposterous an imperative? A prac-
tical joke, of course.  He looked again at the handwriting.  Very
small, spidery, yet legible. Black ink. An educated adult had written
this, he surmised;  no pranking adolescent.  There was a smudge of
dust on the paper, but no discernible fingerprints.

  What an odd sense of humor! Or was it meant for humor? A coldness
trickled the length of his spine.

  Henry placed the letter between two pulp magazines, and left the
house.  At the corner of Victoria Avenue, he stopped to chat with
Davis, the storekeeper. It was Thursday, and business was slack.

  "Mighty big house for one person to live in," declared the vocally
energetic storekeeper. "A young feller like you ortn't to be cooped
up in a dark, shadowy old place like that.  Now Vera Hester —- it
suited her!" He looked darkly at Henry.

  "It does have a lot of shadows," agreed Henry. He peeled a banana,
ate slowly. "There are too many blamed corners.  I'm going to have
lights installed. That'll brighten it up considerably."

  "Yeah.  Old Vera frowned on electricity.  Wouldn't have it." The
storekeeper leaned across the counter, rubbing the side of  his
thin, blue-veined nose.  A mysterious glint appeared in his watery
brown eyes,

  "I guess you know old Ebenezer Hester who built Hester Mansion
was accused of trafficking with the devil?"

== house_of_shadows_40 66 ==

  "What!" Henry's brows shot upward.  "No, I didn't know. In fact,
I know little about my ancestors. I was born in England."

  "Well, now of course, there ain't nothin' to such wild yarns."
The storekeeper spoke placidly,  "But Ebenezer, so I hear, was  a
mighty peculiar feller. He sailed the seas nigh on to thirty years
before settlin' down here. He married a woman much younger than he
was, but she didn't last long. Ebenezer read queer books. . .and ru-
mor was he dealt with demons. There were people claimed they heard
strange whisperings in the house - like more'n ONE person was con-
versin' - when old Eb was supposed to be alone!

  "He lived to be a hunderd, Eb did. Maybe that helped the stories.
He had two sons, y'know.  They was ordinary, respectable people.
Vera was his daughter. She was exactly like Ebenezer, maybe worse.
Never got hitched, hated folks, stayed to herself much as she could.

  "There was a couple of fellers who wanted to buy the house, but
she said nothin' doin'! Said the house was her'n, and she was gonna
keep it. . .always."

  The storekeeper paused for breath.

  "Yeah...she was the re-inkyarnated spirit of old Eb hisself!"

  A customer came in, and the grocer withdrew. Henry pondered what
he had heard.  So his relatives had been eccentric! Cousin Vera
must not have been aware of his existence; at least she had failed
to contact him.

  He wandered outside, turned the corner, and entered a small cafe.
He ate almost mechanically, still thinking about the strange note,
and Davis' disclosure. Finished, he paid for the meal and went into
the phone booth. Dropping a nickel in the slot, he dialed the lawyer
who had handled the affairs of the Hester estate after Vera's demise.

  "Collins Brown speaking," the lawyer's voice came crisply over
the wire.

  Henry identified himself and told about the note.

  "Obviously a practical joke," Brown said. "Don't let it worry you.
Just ignore the whole thing."

  "It wasn't worrying me.  I just thought I'd tell you about it.
I wondered...maybe you could hazard a guess why somebody is trying
to frighten me out of the place?"

  "Hardly," Brown assured him.  "Some high school kid,  doubtless.
Pay no attention to it."

  The lawyer was right.  Anyway, Henry had other things to think
about—-like doing some research for his treatise.

  He borrowed several books on southern folklore from the library
and returned home to read, determined to keep his mind on his work.
This he succeeded in doing, and only when the hall clock chimed
ten did he quit and retire. That night his sleep was untroubled.

  The next morning he took a shower, shaved, ate a hearty break-
fast, and worked hard on the treatise.  At eleven-thirty it was
finished. After one re-write it would be ready to mail.

  At the end of a fortnight, Henry had received a check from the
publisher and a royalty contract to sign.  He arranged to have the
mansion wired for electricity the following Wednesday.

  The shadows were more depressing than ever.  He took to walking

== house_of_shadows_41 66 ==

by the bay more often, ruminating philosophy and noting his obser-
vations in a small notebook.

  He had acquired a profound dislike for the antiquated furniture
in the house. He decided to sell it. And the living room should be
carpeted.

  On Monday morning he ascended the stairway to the second floor
and entered the chamber that evidently had been Vera Hester's bed-
room. Here, too, the furniture was of a by-gone era. Dust had col-
lected and the shadows seemed to congregate more thickly in the odd
geometry of the corners.

  A hand-carved teakwood box on the bureau attracted Henry's at-
tention. He opened it and found a diary. It was written in a small
spidery hand. . .hauntingly familiar. Vera's diary?

  Henry felt a chill aversion to reading the tome in that unpleas-
ant room. He returned to his study, clutching it gingerly. He turned
a few crumbling pages. The thoughts of that eccentric old maid! Why,
she had been stark mad! And incredibly evil!

  The outside world had been the object of a hatred that could have
only been spawned from a warped mind; a mind that was a cesspool of
foul imagining! He felt a disgust that bordered on nausea. He thrust
the diary into the teakwood box, vowing to burn it at the first oppor-
tunity.

  Someone struck the brass door knocker. He hurried to the door. It
was the postman. He handed Henry a pencil and paper.

  "Registered letter, sir."

  Henry signed, accepted his mail. The postman turned away. He had
received two letters.  The registered envelope contained another
check from his publishers. The other had no return address. And the
postmark was blurred. He recognized the handwriting of the address
. . .read the brief message.

  If you don't vacate the house immediately, you will be evicted.

  He felt an unease that was more than vague.  This was a direct
threat! The handwriting!  A bell chimed in his brain. . .he strode
quickly into his study and compared it with the writing in Vera's
diary.

  He could discern no difference; no variation in the formation of
the letters.  But of course they were different.  They had to be!
The woman who had written the diary could not have written the let-
ters! She couldn't! He remembered some of the things he had read in
the diary and shuddered.

  "This is absurd," he muttered aloud, "but I'll put it to a test."

  He found the address of an eminent graphologist, and mailed him
a page from the diary along with the ominous note. He sent it air-
mail to insure speedy delivery.

  Wednesday morning brought reply.  The dismal report made Henry's
brain reel. Both examples, said the graphologist, had been written
by the same hand.

  Still Henry could not believe it.  It just wouldn't register as
a fact. He was glad the electricity was going in today.

  Henry sat in his study and looked out upon the bay; smooth, pale
lucent turquoise. A cluster of delicately tinted magnolia blossoms

== house_of_shadows_42 66 ==

brushed his window pane.  It was a lovely day. Birds sang, flowers
bloomed. He should not remain cooped up in this dark old house! He
looked around. The queerly angled corners cast impenetrable shadows.

  But he did not move. A cold terror came down upon him suddenly as
if someone had tip-toed up from behind and flung a wet blanket over
his head.  His eyes, slightly staring, darted from dark corner to
dark corner of the room.

  Did something stir there?  He squinted his eyes, peered into the
deep gloom. Nothing stirred.

  With a violent effort Henry jerked his attention back to the win-
dow.  The tranquil summer scene was a balm upon his stifling fear.

  A sound reached his ears.  A truck had stopped outside, and men
were busy unloading things. The men from the light company! A spasm
of joy seized him.  He got up quickly, breaking the rigor that had
held him. He glanced at the teakwood box, at the diary; sneered and
walked toward the door.

  He stopped.  Was that a shadow?  He thought of the fanlight over
the entry.  It was not in line.  What cast that unearthly darkness
upon the woodwork? There was no furniture nearby.

  It had no shape-—yes...like a hideous, bent caricature of an old
woman!

  Icy pincers of dread squeezed him.  The outer world seemed far,
far away. How could he pass that noisome blotch? Whence had it come?

  He tried to cry out, but no words came. They tumbled over and over
in his petrified brain.  "You're dead -— you're dead! You can't be
Vera Hester—-you're counting daisy roots!"

  But he knew it was false—-it was Vera; he understood now the veiled
malignancy that had been concealed in the warnings mailed...where?

  The workmen thundered at his door.  Light!  Light to combat this
evil horror! Henry uttered a strangled sob, leaped past the grotesque
shadow of a Thing that blocked his passage. He felt a soft grasping
at his ankle, a clutch that tightened like a steel band. He plunged
headlong. His head struck with violent impact against an outjutting
corner of the baseboard across the hall. Only an instant Henry was
aware of the shadows that rushed in, and the greater, gloating
shadow that spread pinions of sable above him and chuckled with a
dry, rasping glee.  Then the greatest Shadow of all came down and
Henry was. . .evicted.


                               THE END

== house_of_shadows_postscript_42 66 ==

WEIRD. . .FANTASY. . .SCIENCE-FICTION
New and used fantasy books and magazines.
If you live in Seattle, drop in and browse.
Mail queries answered promptly. Let us know
your wants.


             WOLF DEN BOOK SHOP


724 Pike Street            Seattle 1, Wash.

== tall_terrible_women_43 66 ==

Have you seen the tall, terrible women

Whose eyes are black pools of desire,

Who chant their ineffable hymn in

Weird tones of articulate fire?


Whose song is the music of fountains

On a star that died ages agone,

Who walk with the moon on the mountains

And fade with the coming of dawn?


Whose shapes are as sinuous and flowing

As the serpentine tendrils of night,

Whose flesh is as pulsing and glowing

As the amber quintessence of light?


If you're clasped their lithe forms as they swim in

The tarn that your madness has crossed,

If you're loved the tall, terrible women,

You are lost! You are utterly lost!


== metamorphosis_44 66 ==

  A RED TIDE OF HATRED and primitive blood-lust welled up in Nicholas
Gray's brain as he listened to the bitter, but calm, indictment and
ultimatum which came across the desk to him.  With an effort, he
suppressed the hot retort which sprang to the tip of his tongue.
Some hidden instinct told him that it would be to his advantage to
adopt an attitude of repentance and willingness to reform. The re-
venge for which his heart cried out must wait until some later date.

  Nicholas Gray was the product of an over-indulgent widowed mother's
misdirected affection. His father had died when Nick was only four,
and his mother had thence-forth lavished on him the love which would
normally have been divided between husband and child.  His father
had left the family quite well provided for, and his mother's purse

== metamorphosis_45 66 ==

was always open for Nick. His slightest whim had always been grat-
ified. To desire was to have.

  As a result, he had grown to knowing only one aim in life: to have
that which he desired, and to use his ability, by any means, to get
it.  He had never, in his entire life, done any useful work.  When
social amenities required, he could feign an attitude of consider-
ation and concern for his fellow men.  In his own secret heart, he
recognized no one's wishes or desires except his own.

  The Fates had given him both the well-formed athletic body of his
father and the delicate beauty of his mother. He could be very af-
fable when he thought it to his interest and, consequently, he was
quite popular in certain circles. His popularity had been the down-
fall of several local belles, who had loved him well but not wise-
ly, but his mother's money had always managed to settle the affairs
without any scandal.

  His mother had died when Nick was 21, but under the terms of his
father's will, the estate would not come to him until he was thirty.
John Fells, the administrator and an old friend of the family, had
tried to adopt a firmer attitude, but Nick had found ways to evade
most of the restrictions. Fells had insisted that Nick cease being
merely a useless social butterfly, and go to work in his bank, but
Nick had seen to it that the work did not become burdensome. There
had been numerous clashes between the two during the past eight
years, but this was apparently the final show-down.

  "I called you here to settle this thing once and for all,  in
private.  To give you one last chance,"  Fells said with calm de-
liberation, as the two faced each other across the library table.
"Out of friendship for your father and mother, I've tried to guide
you as I would have guided one of my own children, had I been for-
tunate enough to have had any. I've dug into my own pocket and bought
you out of God knows how many scrapes. I've done my best to make a
man out of you, but I don't think you have the makings in you.

  "This thing here is the last straw!" he continued, pointing to a
bank draft on the table before him.  "I've tried to be a father to
you. Even made you the beneficiary in ny will. And you repay me by
forging ny name to this draft!"

  "It was a bad guess, I'll admit," Nick replied with feigned con-
triteness. "I was certain I had analyzed the market correctly; that
the stock would go up.  It was intended as a temporary loan.  I'll
make it good as soon as I come into my inheritance."

  "You'll make it good right now!" Fell thundered. "You'll sign this
assignment form right this minute, or this draft and my affadavit
go to the district attorney first thing in the morning!  I've been
soft with you too long.  For the sake of your parents' names, I'm
giving you one last chance to redeem yourself, even though you're
not worthy of it. You won't like what you're going to do, but you'll
do it; or you'll go to the penitentiary.

  "First thing in the morning, you will put your cars and horses
up for sale, and put the proceeds into a trust fund. You will move
out of your gold-plated apartment, and take rooms in a boarding
house which I have selected. Naturally, I wouldn't trust you in the

== metamorphosis_46 66 ==

bank any more, but I've arranged a  job for you as helper at the
car works.  You will take the job, and keep it, and bank at least
one-fourth of your pay.

  "You will need the money for your old age. This assignment which
you have just signed takes the lion's share of your father's estate.
Naturally you're no longer my heir-—or, at least, you won't be after
I've had a conference with my lawyer in the morning.  I'd rather
see my money go to a Home for stray cats!  You'll stay away from
night clubs and stop playing the market and the horses. You'll get
involved in no more affairs with women.  So long as you do as I've
told you, all will be well and good.  The minute you step over the
line, this forged draft goes to the District Attorney, and you go
to the pen. Now get out!"

  Nick was back in his own apartment and preparing for bed before
the full import of the ultimatum sank into his head. Then a wave of
panic swept through his brain.  Why!  He was a pauper!  No car! He
couldn't go anywhere. Working in the car works as a helper-—a com-
mon laborer! Living like a dog in some stinking hole! Why!  It was
a living death!

  When he finally went to bed, six stiff drinks later, the feeling
of panic had once more given way to an all-consuming hatred. In his
mind's eye he could see Fells working at his desk, by the light of
his oil lamp. His bank was modern, but he would have nothing to do
with electric lights in his home. They were too harsh, he claimed.
He preferred the mellow glow of an old-fashioned oil lamp.

  The draft of his new will, and the affidavit to be used against
Nick, if necessary, would long since be done.  By now, he would be
working on the accounts of his suburban farm--"minding his fences",
as he always laughingly put it. Fences were an obsession with Fells.
There had been rumors of a wolf in the neighborhood of the Fells
Farm recently, and the banker inspected his fences daily to make
certain that they were tight.

  Fences! Nick thought.  That's all he thought about.  That's what
Fells was doing to him!  Fencing him out!  Building a fence around
his car--his apartment-—his friends.  Around everything that made
life worth living!  If only there was some way for him to project
his being unseen into that dim library!  Some way to tear the life
out of that scrawny, worthless body!

  Exhausted at last by the violence of his hatreds, Nick fell into
a troubled sleep.


  THE HUGE WOLF SPED SILENTLY toward the Fells Farm, its gray body
blending almost into invisibility in the shadows. Food it must have
--and it must have it soon, if it was to stay alive. For others be-
sides John Fells had been minding their fences since appearance of
a wolf had been first reported.  The wild life in the neighborhood
had long since vanished. The wolf's ribs already stood out plainly
against its sides.  Soon, unless it fed, starvation would take its
final toll.

  It knew from past experience that the Fells Farm was the least
likely of all to produce food, since it was best guarded of all.

== metamorphosis_47 66 ==

But the urgency of its need did not permit it to neglect any pos-
sible source. Phantom like, the animal skirted the barn and chicken
house, but found no slightest defect in the fences and doors. Fin-
ally it left the tantalizing animal smells which were driving it
almost insane with hunger.

  In desperation the beast approached the house itself, carefully
inspected each door and window. All were securely closed and fast-
ened.  The single lighted window attracted its attention.  With a
bound it reached the roof of a low shed from which it could look
into the library.  Here too it saw that it was foiled, for it rec-
ognized the impassable barrier of the closely spaced bars and the
heavy screen.

  Flattened against the roof until it was only a vague shadow, the
wolf stared at the figure of John Fells, bent over his desk.  It
recognized all humans as its enemies, but some instinct told it that
here was its particular enemy—-the one who, with his fences and care-
fully locked doors, had condemned it to starvation and death.

  As the wolf stared, a stream of pure, concentrated animal hatred
flowed from its brain to the seated figure of the man. And then, by
some strange circumstance of chance, the stream of hatred which
flowed simultaneously from the mind of sleeping Nicholas Gray be-
came en rapport with that flowing from the mind of the wolf. The
body of the gaunt beast twitched convulsively as the two energy
flows merged—-and suddenly it found itself in the room!

  Fells sprang to his feet in alarm as he caught sight of the huge
animal.  He opened his mouth to call for help, but the sound never
left his lips. For in that same instant, the monster leaped, sharp
fangs bared. . . .

  Running footsteps clattered in the hallway outside the room. The
wolf whirled to face the menace, bumped heavily against the desk,
and the lamp crashed to the floor.

  Frantically it sought a way to escape, but found none. The heav-
ily barred window still formed an impassable barrier.  The fire
started by the smashed lamp was rapidly spreading.  Retreating to
the furthest corner of the room the wolf crouched, snarling defi-
ance at the sound of fists pounding on the locked door.

  Crouching, the wolf yearned in desperation for the safety of its
den in an almost inaccessible part of a nearby rocky ravine. Against
a background of hatred and frantic fear, the wish to be safely in
its den began to grow. Then suddenly it WAS in its den.

  For a moment the wolf stood bewildered at the sudden transition.
Then its nose began to recognize familiar odors, and it realized
that it was safe—that it was no longer in the hated room. Its mind
was not bothered by abstract speculation as to the ways and means.
It was safe. That was all that mattered. Selecting a favorite cor-
ner, the wolf curled up to sleep.


  THE SUN WAS HIGH IN THE HEAVENS when Nicholas Gray finally awoke
and lazily stretched. He would be late at the bank, he thought, but
without any great interest or concern.  Then he remembered that he
did not have to go to the bank this morning--or any other morning.

== metamorphosis_48 66 ==

He was all finished there. Tomorrow he'd have to go to work at the
car works. Oh, well, tomorrow was tomorrow. Worry about that tomorrow.

  He began leisurely to dress to go out for his breakfast. Even the
thoughts of breakfast didn't seem to interest him much this morning.
Usually he wanted his breakfast as soon as he awakened, and was in
an ugly mood until he got it. But he didn't seem to be particularly
in the need of breakfast this morning.

  He recalled the unpleasant interview of the night before, and the
feeling of anger and terror which he had felt. It all seemed so far
away now. Just a bad dream. Everything would turn out all right. It
always had.  He dismissed it from his mind and began to hum a gay
tune as he dressed.

  He was putting on his hat and coat when he heard a key turn in
the lock, and the housekeeper stepped into the hallway.

  "Oh, I beg your pardon, Mr. Gray. I didn't know that you were still
in. I'll come in a little later and do up your apartment."

  "That's all right.   You can do it now," he answered pleasantly.
"I'm on my way out. Slept a bit late this morning.  Wasn't feeling
too good last night. Touch of cold or something. So I slept in."

  "Oh! You haven't been out?  Then you haven't heard the  terrible
news?"

  "News? What news?"

  "Poor Mr. Fells! Done to death in his own library!  Oh! It was a
horrible affair!  His throat had been torn out, and something had
been eating him! A wolf, they say. They heard it howling in there.
But it was no wolf, if you ask me! It was the devil's own work! The
window was barred, and the door was bolted from the inside.  The
hired man and the chauffeur had to break down the door to get in."

  Nick made a wordless gesture of astonishment.

  "The house burned too!" she continued. "Right down to the found-
ations!  A lamp had been upset, they think.  By the time they had
broken in, all they could do was drag poor Mr. Fells' body out. The
fire had spread so that they couldn't do a thing to save the house.
By the time the fire brigade got there, it was gone!

  "Oh! I shouldn't have told you all that!" she exclaimed, as she
noticed Nick's ashen face. "You and him being just like father and
son, everyone says.  But still, you had to know it some time.  I'm
so sorry for you, Mr. Gray. If there's anything I can do, just let
me know."

  But Nick's sudden paleness was not from grief.  It came from a
sudden vague remembrance of a strange dream the night before.  Was
it a dream? Or could it be........No Such things just didn't happen!
The animal got in and out some way.  Probably the window bars were
loose or something.  But let these silly fools have their super-
stitions if they enjoyed them.  After all, it didn't matter HOW it
happened. The important thing was that it HAD happened.

  So! The house had burned down to the foundations, eh! Fine! That
meant that the forged note and his assignment were gone too. No one
would ever know, now. The draft of the new will would be gone too.
He would still be Fells' sole heir. He'd get his father's estate
in a few months, and Fells' estate as soon as affairs could be set-

== metamorphosis_49 66 ==

tled up.  There had been no restrictions in Fells' will.  He knew
that.  Once, when Fells had been away on business, he had hunted
around his desk and found it, So he knew what was in it.

  Luckily he had held his temper last night.  Everyone would still
think they had been the closest of friends. He'd have to put on an
act of properly mourning Fells until things were settled up.  Then
he'd be on his way. Florida! Cuba! Paris! The Riviera!

  Finally he came to himself and saw the housekeeper standing be-
fore him. Mumbling his thanks for her sympathy, he turned away.


  THE FUNERAL WAS MAGNIFICENT.  John Fells lay in panoplied state
while the mourners came by and paid their respects to the dead.
Out of respect for the living the coffin remained closed.

  This he could afford, Nicholas thought with that raucous up-
bubbling of spirits he knew as happiness. He kept a long face, none-
the-less, and seemed appropriately shocked and stricken.  He was
shocked, as a matter of fact—as shocked as one can be at a gift of
manna from Heaven. . .at a reprieve from a death sentence.

  He even enjoyed standing in the rainswept graveyard, at the edge
of the brown, yawning pit into which the remains of John Fells were
swiftly lowered. And the thud of the clods upon the coffin lid was
a jubilant counterpoint to the angelic hymn of satisfaction that
throbbed in his rioting veins.

  The days that followed were absorbing enough.  Conferences with
lawyers in which many papers were signed. Borning acquaintanceships
with John Fells' many associates, debtors, friends.  Nicholas had
scarcely a thought to give to the odd circumstances that had hurled
him into the popular position of heir to a not inconsiderable fortune.

  Slowly, he began to reabsorb himself into his old life. . .the
round of parties, amorous adventure, liquor, song, and dance.  He
became quite the old Nicholas Gray, and everybody marvelled that
one so young should be blessed with so many of the good things of
life.

  Marianne, Nicholas' newest, became the talk of the town through
her association with him.  She really planned to marry him. . .and
his fortune. It is very doubtful that Nicholas reciprocated her feel-
ings to this same extent. He had not, in the first place, the char-
acter actually to love any human being other than himself.  In the
second place, he was shrewd enough in his wastrel's way to know that
it was not so much himself as his fortune that attracted Marianne's
greedy little soul.  His fortune was a commodity she was more than
willing to barter her lusciously attractive body to share.

  Though it is rumored that money will not buy the things that
matter, Nicholas found that it readily bought the things he wanted.
So far, he had Marianne, and that was as much as he wanted for the
moment. The installment payments had not yet become exorbitant, he
considered, and before long would cease altogether. Meantime, there
was life and love and. . .Marianne!

  He toasted her beauty over the rim of a cocktail glass in the
opulent serenity of his "gold-plated apartment", more than a little
dazed by the number of toasts—-and cocktails-—that had preceded

== metamorphosis_50 66 =

this one.

  "Gold-plated!" He said thickly. "Those were his very words, honey
child! Well, if old John Fells could see me now!"

  "It was very fortunate for you, darling," sparkled Marianne, toss-
ing honey-colored curls in gay abandon. "I mean. . ."

  "For us, my dear!" Nicholas chuckled. He shrugged deprecatingly.
"Of course, I'm sorry, and all that.  A good man, in his way."  He
cocked an eye shrewdly at the ceiling, thinking of his last inter-
view with his benefactor. He had never breathed aword of that, not
even to Marianne.

  "He died the hard way, poor old fellow. And nobody seems to know
exactly how."

  Marianne made a moue of disgust. "Darling, must you?  I read the
papers."

  Nicholas set down his cocktail glass with elaborate care.

  "I can't help wondering. He was in the library, you know. Probably
going over accounts or something of the sort. I can see him now —-
busily absorbed in his work, unaware of the horrible thing creeping
upon him. Then. . .a noise! He lifts his head. The monster. . .what
was it?. . .springs. . ."

  "Darling!" shrieked Marianne.

  "Tore him to pieces!"  mouthed Nicholas drunkenly.  "The Devil's
own work, my landlady said. Well, I wonder. I can see the whole pic-
ture so plain, except for one thing. . .If I could only. . ."

  What curious relationship was it that established between man and
beast that inexplicable band of ego? What identity existed between
Nicholas Gray and the gaunt gray wolf in the ravine?  What intra-
dimensional twisting of space occurred with the heterodyning of
emotional quanta that streamed from their kindred minds? There could
be no explanation, but the million million chances to one that that
which had happened before could happen again, did happen, and in-
stantly there was a voracious wolf, ravening madly in the room with
them.

  Exactly what happened in Nicholas Gray's apartment was only sur-
mise on the part of the authorities, as it had been in the myster-
ious case of John Fells. Of course, Marianne might have told them.
But she did not. She could not. Marianne would never tell anybody
anything, ever again. When they found her, crouched over the bloody
remnant of what had been Nicholas Gray and shrieking as though to
burst her own lungs, she was quite mad...quite hopelessly mad.


                             THE END

== metamorphosis_postscript_50 66 ==

                 FOLLOW THE FANS TO THE NORWESCON
            Eighth World Science-Fiction Convention
                         Portland, Oregon

                          September 1-4

                 Send your buck today to:
      Ruth Newberry, Treasurer, Box 8517, Portland 7, Oregon

== the_haunted_street_51 66 ==

Just once I walked that narrow, cluttered street,
penned by damp houses, overhanging low
with shuttered gables and old panes to throw
the blood-red sunset at my hesitant feet.
The houses all were empty, and the slow
pace of my steps resounded, and each blow
echoed my heart, that almost ceased to beat.


The vacant windows leered with empty glee
near cobweb-traced black doors that nearly fell
from screaming hinges; and the clogged old well
that poisonous, leaf-choked, stared back up at me
(as if there was some horror it would tell)
showed me a black and open shaft to Hell!

== oculus_penetrans_53 66 ==

  Though I am Irish and proud of it. . .remembering the tales of my
Irish grandmother who each evening in the old country would leave
bowls of cream in the kitchen for the Little Folk. . .I am also in
my way a man of science. For a policeman cannot go about believin'
in the Little Folk. . .no more than he can in the gift of second
sight.

  But. . .though I am NOT superstitious for an Irishman. . .still
I must say that the thing, when it happened, gave me the sick shudders.

  One minute there was the pretty face of Mary Catherine Sullivan
before me. . .and in a fine rage she was, too, with her red curls
tossin', her blue eyes shootin' sparks, and her lips all drawn up
in a pout.

  And the next minute all that had melted away. . .just like ice on
an August mornin'. . .and I was starin' horror-stricken at a skele-
ton—-a grinnin' skeleton—-with Mary Catherine's voice comin' out of
it, still full of fury.

  A good thing it is that I'm NOT superstitious. . .or I'd probably
be stark ravin' mad this minute. And, of course, the whole thing has
a perfectly natural scientific explanation which will be discovered
soon no doubt by the scientists workin' on it now.

  So, to help them get things straight, I have decided to write out
this full, clear report for the Department.

  To begin at the beginning, I should probably report on my psych-
ology the day it all began. Psychology, they say, is a very important
part of the new police methods.  And that day I was feelin' low as
the temperature in Little America. For Mary Catherine had taken it
into her head that we two weren't matched to be married.

  "You have," she had told me only the night before, "a superficial
mind. All you really SEE is the surface me. The man I marry has to
care about my mind. . .my soul. . .not just my. . .my. . .my face."

  "But I do," I told her of course. "You have a BEAUTIFUL soul."
And I tried to kiss her and make up, but she would have none of that.
She was all full to bursting of something she'd read. . .about the 
marriage of true minds. . .or was it souls?  And she wanted me to
shut my eyes and commune with her in silence.

  I did. . .but when I reached out with my eyes shut and tried to
take her hand, she got mad about THAT. In the end we fought, and I
went home in a huff.

  Well, next morning we started out as usual in the patrol car. The
first call we got was to investigate a woman, reported to be telling
fortunes, on O'Keefe Street.

  Pete drove over, and the place was just off a dirty alley, with
a gang of tough-lookin' kids hangin' around.  So Pete stayed with
the car while I went in to investigate.

  I'd been on those jobs before, and usually the fortune-teller
was a gypsy grinnin' at you out of bold eyes, ready for you to cross
her palm with silver.  Or a sallow, cringin' old woman with brown
spots on her face and a dirty turban on her head.

  But this time you could have knocked me over with a feather.

  There, gay and spry as a robin, with her little face wrinkled and
her silver-gray eyes twinkling, was almost the spitting image of ny

== oculus_penetrans_54 66 ==

Irish grandmother. (Though, of course, it wasn't she, for Granny's
been dead these fifteen years.)

  Right away she saw I was Irish, and welcomed me, too, like a long-
lost son. And we got to chatting of this and that, and presently I
had told her all about where my folks had come from in Ireland. And
she said she had come over, herself, long ago. . .but from a differ-
ent county.

  Then, though I felt ashamed to do it, I had to set forth before
her the reason for my visit. But she wasn't angry.

  "Bless you," she chuckled.  "I don't tell fortunes. I CAN'T.  I
can't foresee the future."

  "Of course," I told her. "It must just be that you have an enemy.
One spreading tales about you, too. . .and you know that's slander.
Why, you could take them to court for it, no less."

  "Could I indeed now?"  she sat there with her head cocked on one
side, lookin' thoughtful. "Well, no need to be mixin' mischief for
someone when no harm has been done.

  "But I DON'T tell fortunes, and I don't want it noised about that
I do to confuse the people who need me. I. . ."

  Her gray eyes twinkled at me.

  "I only have one power. I grant wishes."

  "You what?" I asked her, thinking I'd heard wrong.

  "I only grant wishes," she repeated. "Now if you want to foresee
the future, I could grant your wish, and you WOULD!  There's quite
a difference, you'll notice. For instance, would YOU like to fore-
see what's going to happen next month?"

  "Now, now, granny," I said, "you can't do that, you know.  It's
against the law."

  "Nonsense," she told me. "I never heard of a law against granting
wishes. I have even imposed certain limitations lately. Why, if you
wanted me to grant a wish that someone be shot or stabbed, I wouldn't
do it. So there."

  I couldn't decide quite whether she was joking or serious, so I
laughed. She laughed too, and I decided that it was all a good joke.

  "I like you, Patrick," she said. "And for the sake of your Irish
grandmother, I'm going to grant you a wish."

  I remembered the gypsies and their silver.

  "I'm a policeman, granny, on duty,"  I told her.  "Any present I
accept would be only a bribe in the eyes of the law."

  "I wouldn't bribe you," she said, sounding hurt. "But I tell you
what. Tonight when you're off duty, make a wish.  Not for money or
promotion if those are against your conscience. Just for something
you'd like. And I'll grant your wish."

  Naturally, I didn't believe a word of the nonsense, but I thanked
her, thinkin' that even the Irish grow old and feeble witted.  And
I warned her kindly again against telling fortunes, and bade her
good-day.

  BY NIGHT I'D FORGOTTEN THE WHOLE THING, of course, for my mind
was full of Mary Catherine.  Already I'd forgiven her her harsh
words, for I have a generous nature. And I was ready to let bygones

== oculus_penetrans_55 66 ==

be bygones, hug and forget.  But when I walked up to her porch at
seven, there was Timothy Ryan sitting in the porch chair beside hers,
looking for all the world as if he belonged there and intended to
stay.

  I am pleased to say that I outlasted him at the staying, for he
drove a milk truck and had to be up at three. But naturally when he
was gone, harsh word followed harsh word.

  "I told you," Mary Catherine said, "that I wouldn't marry a man
with a mind as shallow as yours."

  "You prefer HIS," I told her bitterly, "a milkman to a Policeman
. . .a truck-driver to the scientific guardian of your life and your
property. And besides, won't I some day be promoted to a detective?"

  "Bah," said Mary Catherine. "A detective! Why you couldn't detect
a germ under a magnifyin' glass if it carried a sign identifying
itself. All the time Timothy is driving his milk truck, he is THINKIN'
of lofty things. He meditates on my MIND. But you couldn't see past
my face if you had X-ray eyes."

  "Oh couldn't I?" I yelled at her. "Well do you know what I wish?
I wish that I HAD X-Ray eyes. . .just so that I could see into the
mind of your Timothy Ryan. For if I could see past that red face of
his. . . . . . . ."

  But I didn't finish. I couldn't.

  For that's when Mary Catherine's bright curls, and her soft
rounded cheeks, and her little red mouth began to fade away.  And
where her bright hair had been was only a bony skull. And where her
eyes had been. . . .

  Someone was saying "Hail Mary" over and over. I guess it was me.
And Mary Catherine was crying something at me, but all I could see
was her jaw bone going up and down and up and down.  I jumped off
the porch, and ran and ran and ran. . .through the streets, with
my breath sobbing and my side aching. . .till I finally found myself
in my room.


  IT TAKES A LITTLE WHILE to get used to X-Ray vision.  I'll admit
that at first I thought I was crazy. But so would anyone if he looked
into the mirror, and there was just a gray blur and a lot of bones.
Or if he walked down the street and saw skeletons all around.  And
at night, even now, I sometimes awaken with the cold sweat of terror
on me.  And no one will be happier than I when the scientists have
finally figured the whole thing out.

  I called Headquarters at first and told them that I was sick.Mary
Catherine telephoned me two or three times, sounding kind. . .and
worried. . .but somehow I couldn't face her. I just stayed inside,
and ate from cans.  And gradually I began to understand what had
happened.  My wish had indeed been granted, and I had X-Ray vision
. . .though 'tis strange how little I guessed of the ways to use it.

  First thing, of course, I tried to reach the old woman who had
granted the wish for me and entreat her to take the gift back. But
it was no use.  The skeleton who came to the door when I rang told
me that the Irish lady had left in the morning shortly after my
first visit, carrying all that she owned in a little gray carpet bag.

== oculus_penetrans_56 66 ==

  I had to return to work, finally, or be fired.  And so simple a
thing as going to my job in the morning created a thousand hazards
for me.  In the times before, I had hardly seen Tony at the news-
stand, for instance, or Joe at the shoe shop.  But now I bought my
paper from a skeleton with a familiar voice that I recognized as
Tony's. But it did not seem right to look into a pair of gaping eye
sockets while we discussed the weather or passed the time of day.
And at the shoe shine shop, I had to watch Joe's false teeth click
together with every word while he shined my shoes and spoke from
a grinning mouth about labor and capital.

  At the Station House, I had to identify the chief, and even Pete,
by their voices.  Naturally enough, I did not tell them what had
happened. For though I might know I was sane, who in the world would
there be to believe me. . .particularly if I let it drop that I
could see clearly the bullet still imbedded in the chief's hip from
a gun battle he had fought with a gang, way back in the days of
prohibition.

  In truth I will never know how I got through that first day. Before
it was over, Pete asked me in a strange voice if I had waited long
enough after my fever to come back to work.

  But in the days that followed, the skeletons began to take on a
certain familiarity. I became used to them. . .as to the flesh it-
self.  Pete's bones, for instance, seemed broad and jocular and
friendly. . .the chief's straight and stern.

  Finally, I even brought myself to pay a visit to Mary Catherine.
But perhaps she had been right at first about my seeing only her
face.  For her bones never had the charm for me that her flesh had
had. And though she seemed to feel guilt over my illness, I shrank
when she patted ny hand with her bony one.

  Nor could I miss the fact that, though she wore nothing on her
fingers, there was a ring on a chain about her neck, moving up and
down on her breast bone when she breathed.  And well I knew that I
had never given Mary Catherine a ring.


  I DEVOTED MYSELF TO MY CAREER.  And here let me speak a word for
science.  For while X-Ray vision is a hard thing on a man, 'tis a
fine thing for a policeman.

  Who but I could have seen that one-legged Jake the beggar had his
second leg taped up behind him?

  Or the gun swinging lightly down the street between the lipstick
and the cigarette lighter in a woman's purse? ('Twas the woman who
later confessed how Carter's Department Store had been robbed.)

  And who but I could have known that the Mexican involved in the
opium ring had fed hundreds of hollow metal pellets to the scrawny
chickens cooped up in the back of his car.

  'Tis no wonder that I became famous. . .I whom Mary Catherine had
called a man of superficial mind!

  They raised my salary on the force and promoted me to a detective
. . .assignin' me to special cases. In the end I had to confess the
truth about my X-Ray vision.  For how could I look for a blonde
dressed in a gray flannel coat. . .when all I could see was a knock-

== oculus_penetrans_57 66 ==

kneed female skeleton. . .with a large safety pin where the shoulder
strap of her slip would be. . .and great quantities of the costume
jewelry that someone had been filchin' from the local five and ten,
drifting along against each of her hip bones.

  And, of course, you know the great stir that it made when I con-
fessed at last to my X-Ray vision.  The stir that extended even to
the offices of the FBI. And in truth, I was slated for great things
in those days, and there is no limit to the places that I might
have gone in my time.

  But all the while the FBI was investigating.  And while I am as
patriotic as the next man, and appreciate the science of their meth-
ods more than most, having had some experience with the marvels of
science myself, still and all I think there are some mysteries
better left unsolved.

  But I suppose what was done was necessary in view of a very im-
portant and secret job for which I was being considered. (Security
is involved, so I cannot tell the true nature of the job, I am
sorry to say. . .and, in fact, I am not quite clear myself just what
it was.)

  But the FBI was thorough, and they were on the trail of the little
Old Irish Lady (the spittin' image of my grandmother) who had granted
me the wish for X-Ray vision. And sure enough,  in time, find her
they did. . .and bring her in they did for me to identify. . .and
her naturally as mad as a hornet, thinking they were after her again
for fortune telling.

  When they took me into the room where she was supposed to be wait-
ing, I could not identify her. . .not for the life of me, though I
looked in every corner.

  "Where is she?" I asked the guard on duty.

  "Right there under your eyes," he said surprised. "What's the matter?
Do her bones look different from her clothes?"

  I heard a dry little rasping chuckle. . .but still I couldn't see
a thing in the room. . .not so much as a tibia or a dorsal vertebra.

  Naturally, hearing the chuckle and seeing nothing, I thought it
was a joke. And I said so loudly, denying that I could see the old
woman's bones. . .or anyone's bones. . .or that any human thing was
in the room. . .besides me, of course, and the guard. For wouldn't
that have been a likely trick to prove me a liar?

  Then, I heard her voice. And sure enough, there was no failing to
recognize it. But the voice came from no one I swear.  Or at least
from no more than a dancing light I could see against the wall.

  "Fortune teller, indeed!" it said. "I'll show them. I'll make them
wish they were dead. . .and then not grant the wish."  The light
danced harder than ever. "But 'tis no fault of yours, Patrick," the
voice said. "And how are you?"

  Fool, fool, fool that I am! For, do you know, before I could think
. . .before I could remember the gift that I was to science. . .or
reflect on ny ambitions and how I was in a fair way to realizin'
them one and all. . .I answered her.  And the answer I gave had to
take the form of a wish!

  "It's fine I am, granny," I answered. "But wishin' I could see you."

== oculus_penetrans_58 66 ==

  And like that, quick as a flash, she was there, with her little
wrinkled face and her pert ways. And there was the guard, too, heavy
of features, dressed in his blue uniform. I had lost it. . .lost my
gift of X-Ray vision through another wish, too hastily expressed.
I gaped at the old woman in surprise, and her silver-gray eyes
twinkled.

  "Pat, my lad," she said, "'Tis a great gift you have lost.  But
still you are lucky. For one day you would have seen the bare bones
of one human being too many."

  So now I have left behind me my fame and my chance for fortune.
I am back with Pete in the patrol car, though there is a kind of
shadow hanging over me.  And Mary Catherine is married to Timothy
Ryan, which is just as well. . .for her bones were far from the
prettiest that I ever saw.

  And to end as I started with a bit of psychology, I'm happy these
days.  For I have met a girl with eyes of brown and hair the color
of jet. And a fine figure she has too. . .and wit and a ready tongue.
When I go to her house, we read from library books she has borrowed
or speak of science. Already she has let me kiss her once. . .which
was when I told her how much I admired the beauty of her mind.

  So I sincerely hope that the scientists at work on the problem
can solve the matter of ny X-Ray vision to her satisfaction, for
I know that it worries her. Or I wish that the old woman who's the
spittin' image of my grandmother will turn up again and grant me
one more wish.

  But do you know, I sometimes wonder if the REAL secret project
that the FBI had me workin' on was to help them locate the old
woman.  For sure the government would want a monopoly of the power
to grant wishes, wouldn't they?

  And do you know, that if so, and they try to force her (though
I am an admirer of science) somehow I believe that she meant what
she said.  She will make anyone who tries to monopolize magic wish
they were dead. And then she won't grant the wish.


                              THE END

== david_h_keller_md_59 66 ==

People are his mind's own secret toys.
He can heal frail, injured flesh,
but keen fingers of his thought lance sharp
into private souls. The twisted mesh
of brain is wilderness he longs to scan.
He meets fear, but is not afraid;
in the soul's sad and sullen marrow
he finds rare good. For insight he paid
his birthright: Man's bright fallacy
of hope. This Earth, he sees, is earth,
not more, and Mankind not exalted.
But still his harsh and accurate mirth
is unsubdued. So great his love
for humanity's brief, brave hour, that strife
can not break him. His strength endures
and gives him mastery for this life.
